Chapter : THE LEAKY CAULDRON .
 It took Harry several days to get used to his strange new freedom .
 Never before had he been able to get up whenever he wanted or eat whatever he fancied .
 He could even go wherever he pleased , as long as it was in Diagon Alley , and as this long cobbled street was packed with the most fascinating wizarding shops in the world , Harry felt no desire to break his word to Fudge and stray back into the Muggle world .
 Harry ate breakfast each morning in the Leaky Cauldron , where he liked watching the other guests : funny little witches from the country , up for a day’s shopping venerable looking wizards arguing over the latest article in Transfiguration Today wild looking warlocks raucous dwarfs and once , what looked suspiciously like a hag , who ordered a plate of raw liver from behind a thick woollen balaclava .
 After breakfast Harry would go out into the backyard , take out his wand , tap the third brick from the left above the trash bin , and stand back as the archway into Diagon Alley opened in the wall .
 Harry spent the long sunny days exploring the shops and eating under the brightly colored umbrellas outside cafes , where his fellow diners were showing one another their purchases ( “ it’s a lunascope , old boy no more messing around with moon charts , see ? ” )
 or else discussing the case of Sirius Black ( “ personally , I won’t let any of the children out alone until he’s back in Azkaban ” ) .
 Harry didn’t have to do his homework under the blankets by flashlight anymore now he could sit in the bright sunshine outside Florean Fortescue’s Ice Cream Parlor , finishing all his essays with occasional help from Florean Fortescue himself , who , apart from knowing a great deal about medieval witch burnings , gave Harry free sundaes every half an hour .
 Once Harry had refilled his money bag with gold Galleons , silver Sickles , and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts , he had to exercise a lot of self control not to spend the whole lot at once .
 He had to keep reminding himself that he had five years to go at Hogwarts , and how it would feel to ask the Dursleys for money for spellbooks , to stop himself from buying a handsome set of solid gold Gobstones ( a wizarding game rather like marbles , in which the stones squirt a nasty smelling liquid into the other player’s face when they lose a point ) .
 He was sorely tempted , too , by the perfect , moving model of the galaxy in a large glass ball , which would have meant he never had to take another Astronomy lesson .
 But the thing that tested Harry’s resolution most appeared in his favorite shop , Quality Quidditch Supplies , a week after he’d arrived at the Leaky Cauldron .
 Curious to know what the crowd in the shop was staring at , Harry edged his way inside and squeezed in among the excited witches and wizards until he glimpsed a newly erected podium , on which was mounted the most magnificent broom he had ever seen in his life .
 “ Just come out prototype ” a square jawed wizard was telling his companion .
 “ It’s the fastest broom in the world , isn’t it , Dad ? ”
 squeaked a boy younger than Harry , who was swinging off his father’s arm .
 “ Irish International Side’s just put in an order for seven of these beauties ! ”
 the proprietor of the shop told the crowd .
 “ And they’re favorites for the World Cup ! ”
 A large witch in front of Harry moved , and he was able to read the sign next to the broom :