Chapter : AN EXCESS OF PHLEGM .
 Harry and Dumbledore approached the back door of the Burrow , which was surrounded by the familiar litter of old Wellington boots and rusty cauldrons Harry could hear the soft clucking of sleepy chickens coming from a distant shed .
 Dumbledore knocked three times and Harry saw sudden movement behind the kitchen window .
 “ Who’s there ? ”
 said a nervous voice he recognized as Mrs Weasley’s .
 “ Declare yourself ! ”
 “ It is I , Dumbledore , bringing Harry . ”
 The door opened at once .
 There stood Mrs Weasley , short , plump , and wearing an old green dressing gown .
 “ Harry , dear !
 Gracious , Albus , you gave me a fright , you said not to expect you before morning ! ”
 “ We were lucky , ” said Dumbledore , ushering Harry over the threshold .
 “ Slughorn proved much more persuadable than I had expected .
 Harry’s doing , of course .
 Ah , hello , Nymphadora ! ”
 Harry looked around and saw that Mrs Weasley was not alone , despite the lateness of the hour .
 A young witch with a pale , heart shaped face and mousy brown hair was sitting at the table clutching a large mug between her hands .
 “ Hello , Professor , ” she said .
 “ Wotcher , Harry . ”
 “ Hi , Tonks . ”
 Harry thought she looked drawn , even ill , and there was something forced in her smile .
 Certainly her appearance was less colorful than usual without her customary shade of bubble gum pink hair .
 “ I’d better be off , ” she said quickly , standing up and pulling her cloak around her shoulders .
 “ Thanks for the tea and sympathy , Molly . ”
 “ Please don’t leave on my account , ” said Dumbledore courteously , “ I cannot stay , I have urgent matters to discuss with Rufus Scrimgeour . ”
 “ No , no , I need to get going , ” said Tonks , not meeting Dumbledore’s eyes .
 “ ’ Night ” “ Dear , why not come to dinner at the weekend , Remus and Mad Eye are coming ? ”
 “ No , really , Molly thanks anyway Good night , everyone . ”
 Tonks hurried past Dumbledore and Harry into the yard a few paces beyond the doorstep , she turned on the spot and vanished into thin air .
 Harry noticed that Mrs Weasley looked troubled .
 “ Well , I shall see you at Hogwarts , Harry , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ Take care of yourself .
 Molly , your servant . ”
 He made Mrs Weasley a bow and followed Tonks , vanishing at precisely the same spot .
 Mrs Weasley closed the door on the empty yard and then steered Harry by the shoulders into the full glow of the lantern on the table to examine his appearance .
 “ You’re like Ron , ” she sighed , looking him up and down .
 “ Both of you look as though you’ve had Stretching Jinxes put on you .
 I swear Ron’s grown four inches since I last bought him school robes .
 Are you hungry , Harry ? ”
 “ Yeah , I am , ” said Harry , suddenly realizing just how hungry he was .
 “ Sit down , dear , I’ll knock something up . ”
 As Harry sat down , a furry ginger cat with a squashed face jumped onto his knees and settled there , purring .
 “ So Hermione’s here ? ”
 he asked happily as he tickled Crookshanks behind the ears .
 “ Oh yes , she arrived the day before yesterday , ” said Mrs Weasley , rapping a large iron pot with her wand .
 It bounced onto the stove with a loud clang and began to bubble at once .
 “ Everyone’s in bed , of course , we didn’t expect you for hours .
 Here you are ” She tapped the pot again it rose into the air , flew toward Harry , and tipped over Mrs Weasley slid a bowl neatly beneath it just in time to catch the stream of thick , steaming onion soup .
 “ Bread , dear ? ”
 “ Thanks , Mrs Weasley . ”
 She waved her wand over her shoulder a loaf of bread and a knife soared gracefully onto the table as the loaf sliced itself and the soup pot dropped back onto the stove , Mrs Weasley sat down opposite him .
 “ So you persuaded Horace Slughorn to take the job ? ”
 Harry nodded , his mouth so full of hot soup that he could not speak .
 “ He taught Arthur and me , ” said Mrs Weasley .
 “ He was at Hogwarts for ages , started around the same time as Dumbledore , I think .
 Did you like him ? ”
 His mouth now full of bread , Harry shrugged and gave a noncommittal jerk of the head .
 “ I know what you mean , ” said Mrs Weasley , nodding wisely .
 “ Of course he can be charming when he wants to be , but Arthur’s never liked him much .
 The Ministry’s littered with Slughorn’s old favorites , he was always good at giving leg ups , but he never had much time for Arthur didn’t seem to think he was enough of a highflier .
 Well , that just shows you , even Slughorn makes mistakes .
 I don’t know whether Ron’s told you in any of his letters it’s only just happened but Arthur’s been promoted ! ”
 It could not have been clearer that Mrs Weasley had been bursting to say this .
 Harry swallowed a large amount of very hot soup and thought he could feel his throat blistering .
 “ That’s great ! ”
 he gasped .
 “ You are sweet , ” beamed Mrs Weasley , possibly taking his watering eyes for emotion at the news .
 “ Yes , Rufus Scrimgeour has set up several new offices in response to the present situation , and Arthur’s heading the Office for the Detection and Confiscation of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects .
 It’s a big job , he’s got ten people reporting to him now ! ”
 “ What exactly ? ”
 “ Well , you see , in all the panic about You Know Who , odd things have been cropping up for sale everywhere , things that are supposed to guard against You Know Who and the Death Eaters .
 You can imagine the kind of thing so called protective potions that are really gravy with a bit of bubotuber pus added , or instructions for defensive jinxes that actually make your ears fall off .
 Well , in the main the perpetrators are just people like Mundungus Fletcher , who’ve never done an honest day’s work in their lives and are taking advantage of how frightened everybody is , but every now and then something really nasty turns up .
 The other day Arthur confiscated a box of cursed Sneakoscopes that were almost certainly planted by a Death Eater .
 So you see , it’s a very important job , and I tell him it’s just silly to miss dealing with spark plugs and toasters and all the rest of that Muggle rubbish . ”
 Mrs Weasley ended her speech with a stern look , as if it had been Harry suggesting that it was natural to miss spark plugs .
 “ Is Mr Weasley still at work ? ”
 Harry asked .
 “ Yes , he is .
 As a matter of fact , he’s a tiny bit late .
 He said he’d be back around midnight . ”
 She turned to look at a large clock that was perched awkwardly on top of a pile of sheets in the washing basket at the end of the table .
 Harry recognized it at once : It had nine hands , each inscribed with the name of a family member , and usually hung on the Weasleys ’ sitting room wall , though its current position suggested that Mrs Weasley had taken to carrying it around the house with her .
 Every single one of its nine hands was now pointing at “ mortal peril . ”
 “ It’s been like that for a while now , ” said Mrs Weasley , in an unconvincingly casual voice , “ ever since You Know Who came back into the open .
 I suppose everybody’s in mortal danger now .
 I don’t think it can be just our family but I don’t know anyone else who’s got a clock like this , so I can’t check .
 Oh ! ”
 With a sudden exclamation she pointed at the clock’s face .
 Mr Weasley’s hand had switched to “ traveling . ”
 “ He’s coming ! ”
 And sure enough , a moment later there was a knock on the back door .
 Mrs Weasley jumped up and hurried to it with one hand on the doorknob and her face pressed against the wood she called softly , “ Arthur , is that you ? ”
 “ Yes , ” came Mr Weasley’s weary voice .
 “ But I would say that even if I were a Death Eater , dear .
 Ask the question ! ”
 “ Oh , honestly ” “ Molly ! ”
 “ All right , all right What is your dearest ambition ? ”
 “ To find out how airplanes stay up . ”
 Mrs Weasley nodded and turned the doorknob , but apparently Mr Weasley was holding tight to it on the other side , because the door remained firmly shut .
 “ Molly !
 I’ve got to ask you your question first ! ”
 “ Arthur , really , this is just silly . ”
 “ What do you like me to call you when we’re alone together ? ”
 Even by the dim light of the lantern Harry could tell that Mrs Weasley had turned bright red he himself felt suddenly warm around the ears and neck , and hastily gulped soup , clattering his spoon as loudly as he could against the bowl .
 “ Mollywobbles , ” whispered a mortified Mrs Weasley into the crack at the edge of the door .
 “ Correct , ” said Mr Weasley .
 “ Now you can let me in . ”
 Mrs Weasley opened the door to reveal her husband , a thin , balding , red haired wizard wearing horn rimmed spectacles and a long and dusty traveling cloak .
 “ I still don’t see why we have to go through that every time you come home , ” said Mrs Weasley , still pink in the face as she helped her husband out of his cloak .
 “ I mean , a Death Eater might have forced the answer out of you before impersonating you ! ”
 “ I know , dear , but it’s Ministry procedure , and I have to set an example .
 Something smells good onion soup ? ”
 Mr Weasley turned hopefully in the direction of the table .
 “ Harry !
 We didn’t expect you until morning ! ”
 They shook hands , and Mr Weasley dropped into the chair beside Harry as Mrs Weasley set a bowl of soup in front of him too .
 “ Thanks , Molly .
 It’s been a tough night .
 Some idiot’s started selling Metamorph Medals .
 Just sling them around your neck and you’ll be able to change your appearance at will .
 A hundred thousand disguises , all for ten Galleons ! ”
 “ And what really happens when you put them on ? ”
 “ Mostly you just turn a fairly unpleasant orange color , but a couple of people have also sprouted tentaclelike warts all over their bodies .
 As if St .
 Mungo’s didn’t have enough to do already ! ”
 “ It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George would find funny , ” said Mrs Weasley hesitantly .
 “ Are you sure ? ”
 “ Of course I am ! ”
 said Mr Weasley .
 “ The boys wouldn’t do anything like that now , not when people are desperate for protection ! ”
 “ So is that why you’re late , Metamorph Medals ? ”
 “ No , we got wind of a nasty backfiring jinx down in Elephant and Castle , but luckily the Magical Law Enforcement Squad had sorted it out by the time we got there . ”
 Harry stifled a yawn behind his hand .
 “ Bed , ” said an undeceived Mrs Weasley at once .
 “ I’ve got Fred and George’s room all ready for you , you’ll have it to yourself . ”
 “ Why , where are they ? ”
 “ Oh , they’re in Diagon Alley , sleeping in the little flat over their joke shop as they’re so busy , ” said Mrs Weasley .
 “ I must say , I didn’t approve at first , but they do seem to have a bit of a flair for business !
 Come on , dear , your trunk’s already up there . ”
 “ ’ Night , Mr Weasley , ” said Harry , pushing back his chair .
 Crookshanks leapt lightly from his lap and slunk out of the room .
 “ G’night , Harry , ” said Mr Weasley .
 Harry saw Mrs Weasley glance at the clock in the washing basket as they left the kitchen .
 All the hands were once again at “ mortal peril . ”
 Fred and George’s bedroom was on the second floor .
 Mrs Weasley pointed her wand at a lamp on the bedside table and it ignited at once , bathing the room in a pleasant golden glow .
 Though a large vase of flowers had been placed on a desk in front of the small window , their perfume could not disguise the lingering smell of what Harry thought was gunpowder .
 A considerable amount of floor space was devoted to a vast number of unmarked , sealed cardboard boxes , amongst which stood Harry’s school trunk .
 The room looked as though it was being used as a temporary warehouse .
 Hedwig hooted happily at Harry from her perch on top of a large wardrobe , then took off through the window Harry knew she had been waiting to see him before going hunting .
 Harry bade Mrs Weasley good night , put on pajamas , and got into one of the beds .
 There was something hard inside the pillowcase .
 He groped inside it and pulled out a sticky purple and orange sweet , which he recognized as a Puking Pastille .
 Smiling to himself , he rolled over and was instantly asleep .
 Seconds later , or so it seemed to Harry , he was awakened by what sounded like cannon fire as the door burst open .
 Sitting bolt upright , he heard the rasp of the curtains being pulled back : The dazzling sunlight seemed to poke him hard in both eyes .
 Shielding them with one hand , he groped hopelessly for his glasses with the other .
 “ Wuzzgoinon ? ”
 “ We didn’t know you were here already ! ”
 said a loud and excited voice , and he received a sharp blow to the top of the head .
 “ Ron , don’t hit him ! ”
 said a girl’s voice reproachfully .
 Harry’s hand found his glasses and he shoved them on , though the light was so bright he could hardly see anyway .
 A long , looming shadow quivered in front of him for a moment he blinked and Ron Weasley came into focus , grinning down at him .
 “ All right ? ”
 “ Never been better , ” said Harry , rubbing the top of his head and slumping back onto his pillows .
 “ You ? ”
 “ Not bad , ” said Ron , pulling over a cardboard box and sitting on it .
 “ When did you get here ?
 Mum’s only just told us ! ”
 “ About one o’clock this morning . ”
 “ Were the Muggles all right ?
 Did they treat you okay ? ”
 “ Same as usual , ” said Harry , as Hermione perched herself on the edge of his bed , “ they didn’t talk to me much , but I like it better that way .
 How’re you , Hermione ? ”
 “ Oh , I’m fine , ” said Hermione , who was scrutinizing Harry as though he was sickening for something .
 He thought he knew what was behind this , and as he had no wish to discuss Sirius’s death or any other miserable subject at the moment , he said , “ What’s the time ?
 Have I missed breakfast ? ”
 “ Don’t worry about that , Mum’s bringing you up a tray she reckons you look underfed , ” said Ron , rolling his eyes .
 “ So , what’s been going on ? ”
 “ Nothing much , I’ve just been stuck at my aunt and uncle’s , haven’t I ? ”
 “ Come off it ! ”
 said Ron .
 “ You’ve been off with Dumbledore ! ”
 “ It wasn’t that exciting .
 He just wanted me to help him persuade this old teacher to come out of retirement .
 His name’s Horace Slughorn . ”
 “ Oh , ” said Ron , looking disappointed .
 “ We thought ” Hermione flashed a warning look at Ron , and Ron changed tack at top speed .
 “ we thought it’d be something like that . ”
 “ You did ? ”
 said Harry , amused .
 “ Yeah yeah , now Umbridge has left , obviously we need a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher , don’t we ?
 So , er , what’s he like ? ”
 “ He looks a bit like a walrus , and he used to be Head of Slytherin , ” said Harry .
 “ Something wrong , Hermione ? ”
 She was watching him as though expecting strange symptoms to manifest themselves at any moment .
 She rearranged her features hastily in an unconvincing smile .
 “ No , of course not !
 So , um , did Slughorn seem like he’ll be a good teacher ? ”
 “ Dunno , ” said Harry .
 “ He can’t be worse than Umbridge , can he ? ”
 “ I know someone who’s worse than Umbridge , ” said a voice from the doorway .
 Ron’s younger sister slouched into the room , looking irritable .
 “ Hi , Harry . ”
 “ What’s up with you ? ”
 Ron asked .
 “ It’s her , ” said Ginny , plonking herself down on Harry’s bed .
 “ She’s driving me mad . ”
 “ What’s she done now ? ”
 asked Hermione sympathetically .
 “ It’s the way she talks to me you’d think I was about three ! ”
 “ I know , ” said Hermione , dropping her voice .
 “ She’s so full of herself . ”
 Harry was astonished to hear Hermione talking about Mrs Weasley like this and could not blame Ron for saying angrily , “ Can’t you two lay off her for five seconds ? ”
 “ Oh , that’s right , defend her , ” snapped Ginny .
 “ We all know you can’t get enough of her . ”
 This seemed an odd comment to make about Ron’s mother .
 Starting to feel that he was missing something , Harry said , “ Who are you ? ”
 But his question was answered before he could finish it .
 The bedroom door flew open again , and Harry instinctively yanked the bedcovers up to his chin so hard that Hermione and Ginny slid off the bed onto the floor .
 A young woman was standing in the doorway , a woman of such breathtaking beauty that the room seemed to have become strangely airless .
 She was tall and willowy with long blonde hair and appeared to emanate a faint , silvery glow .
 To complete this vision of perfection , she was carrying a heavily laden breakfast tray .
 “ ’ Arry , ” she said in a throaty voice .
 “ Eet ’ as been too long ! ”
 As she swept over the threshold toward him , Mrs Weasley was revealed , bobbing along in her wake , looking rather cross .
 “ There was no need to bring up the tray , I was just about to do it myself ! ”
 “ Eet was no trouble , ” said Fleur Delacour , setting the tray across Harry’s knees and then swooping to kiss him on each cheek : He felt the places where her mouth had touched him burn .
 “ I ’ ave been longing to see ’ im .
 You remember my seester , Gabrielle ?
 She never stops talking about ’ Ariy Potter .
 She will be delighted to see you again . ”
 “ Oh is she here too ? ”
 Harry croaked .
 “ No , no , silly boy , ” said Fleur with a tinkling laugh , “ I mean next summer , when we but do you not know ? ”
 Her great blue eyes widened and she looked reproachfully at Mrs Weasley , who said , “ We hadn’t got around to telling him yet . ”
 Fleur turned back to Harry , swinging her silvery sheet of hair so that it whipped Mrs Weasley across the face .
 “ Bill and I are going to be married ! ”
 “ Oh , ” said Harry blankly .
 He could not help noticing how Mrs Weasley , Hermione , and Ginny were all determinedly avoiding one another’s gaze .
 “ Wow .
 Er congratulations ! ”
 She swooped down upon him and kissed him again .
 “ Bill is very busy at ze moment , working very ’ ard , and I only work part time at Gringotts for my Eenglish , so he brought me ’ ere for a few days to get to know ’ is family properly .
 I was so pleased to ’ ear you would be coming zere isn’t much to do ’ ere , unless you like cooking and chickens !
 Well enjoy your breakfast , ’ Arry ! ”
 With these words she turned gracefully and seemed to float out of the room , closing the door quietly behind her .
 Mrs Weasley made a noise that sounded like “ tchah ! ”
 “ Mum hates her , ” said Ginny quietly .
 “ I do not hate her ! ”
 said Mrs Weasley in a cross whisper .
 “ I just think they’ve hurried into this engagement , that’s all ! ”
 “ They’ve known each other a year , ” said Ron , who looked oddly groggy and was staring at the closed door .
 “ Well , that’s not very long !
 I know why it’s happened , of course .
 It’s all this uncertainty with You Know Who coming back , people think they might be dead tomorrow , so they’re rushing all sorts of decisions they’d normally take time over .
 It was the same last time he was powerful , people eloping left , right , and center ” “ Including you and Dad , ” said Ginny slyly .
 “ Yes , well , your father and I were made for each other , what was the point in waiting ? ”
 said Mrs Weasley .
 “ Whereas Bill and Fleur well what have they really got in common ?
 He’s a hardworking , down to earth sort of person , whereas she’s ” “ A cow , ” said Ginny , nodding .
 “ But Bill’s not that down to earth .
 He’s a Curse Breaker , isn’t he , he likes a bit of adventure , a bit of glamour .
 I expect that’s why he’s gone for Phlegm . ”
 “ Stop calling her that , Ginny , ” said Mrs Weasley sharply , as Harry and Hermione laughed .
 “ Well , I’d better get on .
 Eat your eggs while they’re warm , Harry . ”
 Looking careworn , she left the room .
 Ron still seemed slightly punch drunk he was shaking his head experimentally like a dog trying to rid its ears of water .
 “ Don’t you get used to her if she’s staying in the same house ? ”
 Harry asked .
 “ Well , you do , ” said Ron , “ but if she jumps out at you unexpectedly , like then ” “ It’s pathetic , ” said Hermione furiously , striding away from Ron as far as she could go and turning to face him with her arms folded once she had reached the wall .
 “ You don’t really want her around forever ? ”
 Ginny asked Ron incredulously .
 When he merely shrugged , she said , “ Well , Mum’s going to put a stop to it if she can , I bet you anything . ”
 “ How’s she going to manage that ? ”
 asked Harry .
 “ She keeps trying to get Tonks round for dinner .
 I think she’s hoping Bill will fall for Tonks instead .
 I hope he does , I’d much rather have her in the family . ”
 “ Yeah , that’ll work , ” said Ron sarcastically .
 “ Listen , no bloke in his right mind’s going to fancy Tonks when Fleur’s around .
 I mean , Tonks is okay looking when she isn’t doing stupid things to her hair and her nose , but ” “ She’s a damn sight nicer than Phlegm , ” said Ginny “ And she’s more intelligent , she’s an Auror ! ”
 said Hermione from the corner .
 “ Fleur’s not stupid , she was good enough to enter the Triwizard Tournament , ” said Harry .
 “ Not you as well ! ”
 said Hermione bitterly .
 “ I suppose you like the way Phlegm says ‘ ’ Arry , ’ do you ? ”
 asked Ginny scornfully .
 “ No , ” said Harry , wishing he hadn’t spoken , “ I was just saying , Phlegm I mean , Fleur ” “ I’d much rather have Tonks in the family , ” said Ginny .
 “ At least she’s a laugh . ”
 “ She hasn’t been much of a laugh lately , ” said Ron .
 “ Every time I’ve seen her she’s looked more like Moaning Myrtle . ”
 “ That’s not fair , ” snapped Hermione .
 “ She still hasn’t got over what happened you know I mean , he was her cousin ! ”
 Harry’s heart sank .
 They had arrived at Sirius .
 He picked up a fork and began shoveling scrambled eggs into his mouth , hoping to deflect any invitation to join in this part of the conversation .
 “ Tonks and Sirius barely knew each other ! ”
 said Ron .
 “ Sirius was in Azkaban half her life and before that their families never met ” “ That’s not the point , ” said Hermione .
 “ She thinks it was her fault he died ! ”
 “ How does she work that one out ? ”
 asked Harry , in spite of himself .
 “ Well , she was fighting Bellatrix Lestrange , wasn’t she ?
 I think she feels that if only she had finished her off , Bellatrix couldn’t have killed Sirius . ”
 “ That’s stupid , ” said Ron .
 “ It’s survivor’s guilt , ” said Hermione .
 “ I know Lupin’s tried to talk her round , but she’s still really down .
 She’s actually having trouble with her Metamorphosing ! ”
 “ With her ? ”
 “ She can’t change her appearance like she used to , ” explained Hermione .
 “ I think her powers must have been affected by shock , or something . ”
 “ I didn’t know that could happen , ” said Harry .
 “ Nor did I , ” said Hermione , “ but I suppose if you’re really depressed ” The door opened again and Mrs Weasley popped her head in .
 “ Ginny , ” she whispered , “ come downstairs and help me with the lunch . ”
 “ I’m talking to this lot ! ”
 said Ginny , outraged .
 “ Now ! ”
 said Mrs Weasley , and withdrew .
 “ She only wants me there so she doesn’t have to be alone with Phlegm ! ”
 said Ginny crossly .
 She swung her long red hair around in a very good imitation of Fleur and pranced across the room with her arms held aloft like a ballerina .
 “ You lot had better come down quickly too , ” she said as she left .
 Harry took advantage of the temporary silence to eat more breakfast .
 Hermione was peering into Fred and George’s boxes , though every now and then she cast sideways looks at Harry .
 Ron , who was now helping himself to Harry’s toast , was still gazing dreamily at the door .
 “ What’s this ? ”
 Hermione asked eventually , holding up what looked like a small telescope .
 “ Dunno , ” said Ron , “ but if Fred and George’ve left it here , it’s probably not ready for the joke shop yet , so be careful . ”
 “ Your mum said the shop’s going well , ” said Harry .
 “ Said Fred and George have got a real flair for business . ”
 “ That’s an understatement , ” said Ron .
 “ They’re raking in the Galleons !
 I can’t wait to see the place , we haven’t been to Diagon Alley yet , because Mum says Dad’s got to be there for extra security and he’s been really busy at work , but it sounds excellent . ”
 “ And what about Percy ? ”
 asked Harry the third eldest Weasley brother had fallen out with the rest of the family .
 “ Is he talking to your mum and dad again ? ”
 “ Nope , ” said Ron .
 “ But he knows your dad was right all along now about Voldemort being back ” “ Dumbledore says people find it far easier to forgive others for being wrong than being right , ” said Hermione .
 “ I heard him telling your mum , Ron . ”
 “ Sounds like the sort of mental thing Dumbledore would say , ” said Ron .
 “ He’s going to be giving me private lessons this year , ” said Harry conversationally .
 Ron choked on his bit of toast , and Hermione gasped .
 “ You kept that quiet ! ”
 said Ron .
 “ I only just remembered , ” said Harry honestly .
 “ He told me last night in your broom shed . ”
 “ Blimey private lessons with Dumbledore ! ”
 said Ron , looking impressed .
 “ I wonder why he’s ? ”
 His voice tailed away .
 Harry saw him and Hermione exchange looks .
 Harry laid down his knife and fork , his heart beating rather fast considering that all he was doing was sitting in bed .
 Dumbledore had said to do it .
 Why not now ?
 He fixed his eyes on his fork , which was gleaming in the sunlight streaming into his lap , and said , “ I don’t know exactly why he’s going to be giving me lessons , but I think it must be because of the prophecy . ”
 Neither Ron nor Hermione spoke .
 Harry had the impression that both had frozen .
 He continued , still speaking to his fork , “ You know , the one they were trying to steal at the Ministry . ”
 “ Nobody knows what it said , though , ” said Hermione quickly .
 “ It got smashed . ”
 “ Although the Prophet says ” began Ron , but Hermione said , “ Shh ! ”
 “ The Prophet’s got it right , ” said Harry , looking up at them both with a great effort : Hermione seemed frightened and Ron amazed .
 “ That glass ball that smashed wasn’t the only record of the prophecy .
 I heard the whole thing in Dumbledore ’ s office , he was the one the prophecy was made to , so he could tell me .
 From what it said , ” Harry took a deep breath , “ it looks like I’m the one who’s got to finish off Voldemort .
 At least , it said neither of us could live while the other survives . ”
 The three of them gazed at one another in silence for a moment .
 Then there was a loud bang and Hermione vanished behind a puff of black smoke .
 “ Hermione ! ”
 shouted Harry and Ron the breakfast tray slid to the floor with a crash .
 Hermione emerged , coughing , out of the smoke , clutching the telescope and sporting a brilliantly purple black eye .
 “ I squeezed it and it it punched me ! ”
 she gasped .
 And sure enough , they now saw a tiny fist on a long spring protruding from the end of the telescope .
 “ Don’t worry , ” said Ron , who was plainly trying not to laugh , “ Mumll fix that , she’s good at healing minor injuries ” “ Oh well , never mind that now ! ”
 said Hermione hastily .
 “ Harry , oh , Harry ” She sat down on the edge of his bed again .
 “ We wondered , after we got back from the Ministry Obviously , we didn’t want to say anything to you , but from what Lucius Malfoy said about the prophecy , how it was about you and Voldemort , well , we thought it might be something like this .
 Oh , Harry ” She stared at him , then whispered , “ Are you scared ? ”
 “ Not as much as I was , ” said Harry .
 “ When I first heard it , I was but now , it seems as though I always knew I’d have to face him in the end . ”
 “ When we heard Dumbledore was collecting you in person , we thought he might be telling you something or showing you something to do with the prophecy , ” said Ron eagerly .
 “ And we were kind of right , weren’t we ?
 He wouldn’t be giving you lessons if he thought you were a goner , wouldn’t waste his time he must think you’ve got a chance ! ”
 “ That’s true , ” said Hermione .
 “ I wonder what he’ll teach you , Harry ?
 Really advanced defensive magic , probably powerful countercurses anti jinxes ” Harry did not really listen .
 A warmth was spreading through him that had nothing to do with the sunlight a tight obstruction in his chest seemed to be dissolving .
 He knew that Ron and Hermione were more shocked than they were letting on , but the mere fact that they were still there on either side of him , speaking bracing words of comfort , not shrinking from him as though he were contaminated or dangerous , was worth more than he could ever tell them . “
 and evasive enchantments generally , ” concluded Hermione .
 “ Well , at least you know one lesson you’ll be having this year , that’s one more than Ron and me .
 I wonder when our O . W . L .
 results will come ? ”
 “ Can’t be long now , it’s been a month , ” said Ron .
 “ Hang on , ” said Harry , as another part of last night’s conversation came back to him .
 “ I think Dumbledore said our O . W . L .
 results would be arriving today ! ”
 “ Today ? ”
 shrieked Hermione .
 “ Today ?
 But why didn’t you oh my God you should have said ” She leapt to her feet .
 “ I’m going to see whether any owls have come . ”
 But when Harry arrived downstairs ten minutes later , fully dressed and carrying his empty breakfast tray , it was to find Hermione sitting at the kitchen table in great agitation , while Mrs Weasley tried to lessen her resemblance to half a panda .
 “ It just won’t budge , ” Mrs Weasley was saying anxiously , standing over Hermione with her wand in her hand and a copy of The Healer’s Helpmate open at “ Bruises , Cuts , and Abrasions . ”
 “ This has always worked before , I just can’t understand it . ”
 “ It’ll be Fred and George’s idea of a funny joke , making sure it can’t come off , ” said Ginny “ But it’s got to come off ! ”
 squeaked Hermione .
 “ I can’t go around looking like this forever ! ”
 “ You won’t , dear , we’ll find an antidote , don’t worry , ” said Mrs Weasley soothingly .
 “ Bill told me ’ ow Fred and George are very amusing ! ”
 said Fleur , smiling serenely .
 “ Yes , I can hardly breathe for laughing , ” snapped Hermione .
 She jumped up and started walking round and round the kitchen , twisting her fingers together .
 “ Mrs Weasley , you’re quite , quite sure no owls have arrived this morning ? ”
 “ Yes , dear , I’d have noticed , ” said Mrs Weasley patiently .
 “ But it’s barely nine , there’s still plenty of time . ”
 “ I know I messed up Ancient Runes , ” muttered Hermione feverishly , “ I definitely made at least one serious mistranslation .
 And the Defense Against the Dark Arts practical was no good at all .
 I thought Transfiguration went all right at the time , but looking back ” “ Hermione , will you shut up , you’re not the only one who’s nervous ! ”
 barked Ron .
 “ And when you’ve got your eleven ‘ Outstanding ’ O . W . L . s ” “ Don’t , don’t , don’t ! ”
 said Hermione , flapping her hands hysterically .
 “ I know I’ve failed everything ! ”
 “ What happens if we fail ? ”
 Harry asked the room at large , but it was again Hermione who answered .
 “ We discuss our options with our Head of House , I asked Professor McGonagall at the end of last term . ”
 Harry’s stomach squirmed .
 He wished he had eaten less breakfast .
 “ At Beauxbatons , ” said Fleur complacently , “ we ’ ad a different way of doing things .
 I think eet was better .
 We sat our examinations after six years of study , not five , and then ” Fleur’s words were drowned in a scream .
 Hermione was pointing through the kitchen window .
 Three black specks were clearly visible in the sky , growing larger all the time .
 “ They’re definitely owls , ” said Ron hoarsely , jumping up to join Hermione at the window .
 “ And there are three of them , ” said Harry , hastening to her other side .
 “ One for each of us , ” said Hermione in a terrified whisper .
 “ Oh no oh no oh no ” She gripped both Harry and Ron tightly around the elbows .
 The owls were flying directly at the Burrow , three handsome tawnies , each of which , it became clear as they flew lower over the path leading up to the house , was carrying a large square envelope .
 “ Oh no ” squealed Hermione .
 Mrs Weasley squeezed past them and opened the kitchen window .
 One , two , three , the owls soared through it and landed on the table in a neat line .
 All three of them lifted their right legs .
 Harry moved forward .
 The letter addressed to him was tied to the leg of the owl in the middle .
 He untied it with fumbling fingers .
 To his left , Ron was trying to detach his own results to his right , Hermione’s hands were shaking so much she was making her whole owl tremble .
 Nobody in the kitchen spoke .
 At last , Harry managed to detach the envelope .
 He slit it open quickly and unfolded the parchment inside .
 ORDINARY WIZARDING LEVEL RESULTS Pass Grades Fail Grades Outstanding ( O ) Poor ( P ) Exceeds Expectations ( E ) Dreadful ( D ) Acceptable ( A ) Troll ( T ) Harry James Potter has achieved : Astronomy A Care of Magical Creatures E Charms E Defense Against the Dark ArtsO Divination P Herbology E History of Magic D Potions E Transfiguration E Harry read the parchment through several times , his breathing becoming easier with each reading .
 It was all right : He had always known that he would fail Divination , and he had had no chance of passing History of Magic , given that he had collapsed halfway through the examination , but he had passed everything else !
 He ran his finger down the grades he had passed well in Transfiguration and Herbology , he had even exceeded expectations at Potions !
 And best of all , he had achieved “ Outstanding ” at Defense Against the Dark Arts !
 He looked around .
 Hermione had her back to him and her head bent , but Ron was looking delighted .
 “ Only failed Divination and History of Magic , and who cares about them ? ”
 he said happily to Harry .
 “ Here swap ” Harry glanced down Ron’s grades : There were no “ Outstandings ” there .
 “ Knew you’d be top at Defense Against the Dark Arts , ” said Ron , punching Harry on the shoulder .
 “ We’ve done all right , haven’t we ? ”
 “ Well done ! ”
 said Mrs Weasley proudly , ruffling Ron’s hair .
 “ Seven O . W . L . s , that’s more than Fred and George got together ! ”
 “ Hermione ? ”
 said Ginny tentatively , for Hermione still hadn’t turned around .
 “ How did you do ? ”
 “ I not bad , ” said Hermione in a small voice .
 “ Oh , come off it , ” said Ron , striding over to her and whipping her results out of her hand .
 “ Yep nine ‘ Outstandings ’ and one ‘ Exceeds Expectations ’ at Defense Against the Dark Arts . ”
 He looked down at her , half amused , half exasperated .
 “ You’re actually disappointed , aren’t you ? ”
 Hermione shook her head , but Harry laughed .
 “ Well , we’re N . E . W . T .
 students now ! ”
 grinned Ron .
 “ Mum , are there any more sausages ? ”
 Harry looked back down at his results .
 They were as good as he could have hoped for .
 He felt just one tiny twinge of regret .
 This was the end of his ambition to become an Auror .
 He had not secured the required Potions grade .
 He had known all along that he wouldn’t , but he still felt a sinking in his stomach as he looked again at that small black E .
 It was odd , really , seeing that it had been a Death Eater in disguise who had first told Harry he would make a good Auror , but somehow the idea had taken hold of him , and he couldn’t really think of anything else he would like to be .
 Moreover , it had seemed the right destiny for him since he had heard the prophecy a few weeks ago .
 Neither can live while the other survives .
 Wouldn’t he be living up to the prophecy , and giving himself the best chance of survival , if he joined those highly trained wizards whose job it was to find and kill Voldemort ?
 DRACO’S DETOUR Harry remained within the confines of the Burrow’s garden over the next few weeks .
 He spent most of his days playing two a side Quidditch in the Weasleys ’ orchard ( he and Hermione against Ron and Ginny Hermione was dreadful and Ginny good , so they were reasonably well matched ) and his evenings eating triple helpings of everything Mrs Weasley put in front of him .
 It would have been a happy , peaceful holiday had it not been for the stories of disappearances , odd accidents , even of deaths now appearing almost daily in the Prophet Sometimes Bill and Mr Weasley brought home news before it even reached the paper .
 To Mrs Weasley’s displeasure , Harry’s sixteenth birthday celebrations were marred by grisly tidings brought to the party by Remus Lupin , who was looking gaunt and grim , his brown hair streaked liberally with gray , his clothes more ragged and patched than ever .
 “ There have been another couple of dementor attacks , ” he announced , as Mrs Weasley passed him a large slice of birthday cake .
 “ And they’ve found Igor Karkaroff’s body in a shack up north .
 The Dark Mark had been set over it well , frankly , I’m surprised he stayed alive for even a year after deserting the Death Eaters Sirius’s brother , Regulus , only managed a few days as far as I can remember . ”
 “ Yes , well , ” said Mrs Weasley , frowning , “ perhaps we should talk about something diff ” “ Did you hear about Florean Fortescue , Remus ? ”
 asked Bill , who was being plied with wine by Fleur .
 “ The man who ran ” “ the ice cream place in Diagon Alley ? ”
 Harry interrupted , with an unpleasant , hollow sensation in the pit of his stomach .
 “ He used to give me free ice creams .
 What’s happened to him ? ”
 “ Dragged off , by the look of his place . ”
 “ Why ? ”
 asked Ron , while Mrs Weasley pointedly glared at Bill .
 “ Who knows ?
 He must’ve upset them somehow .
 He was a good man , Florean . ”
 “ Talking of Diagon Alley , ” said Mr Weasley , “ looks like Ollivander’s gone too . ”
 “ The wandmaker ? ”
 said Ginny , looking startled .
 “ That’s the one .
 Shop’s empty .
 No sign of a struggle .
 No one knows whether he left voluntarily or was kidnapped . ”
 “ But wands what’ll people do for wands ? ”
 “ They’ll make do with other makers , ” said Lupin .
 “ But Ollivander was the best , and if the other side have got him it’s not so good for us . ”
 The day after this rather gloomy birthday tea , their letters and booklists arrived from Hogwarts .
 Harry’s included a surprise : He had been made Quidditch Captain .
 “ That gives you equal status with prefects ! ”
 cried Hermione happily .
 “ You can use our special bathroom now and everything ! ”
 “ Wow , I remember when Charlie wore one of these , ” said Ron , examining the badge with glee .
 “ Harry , this is so cool , you’re my Captain if you let me back on the team , I suppose , ha ha . ”
 “ Well , I don’t suppose we can put off a trip to Diagon Alley much longer now you’ve got these , ” sighed Mrs Weasley , looking down Ron’s booklist .
 “ We’ll go on Saturday as long as your father doesn’t have to go into work again .
 I’m not going there without him . ”
 “ Mum , d’you honestly think You Know Who’s going to be hiding behind a bookshelf in Flourish and Blotts ? ”
 sniggered Ron .
 “ Fortescue and Ollivander went on holiday , did they ? ”
 said Mrs Weasley , firing up at once .
 “ If you think security’s a laughing matter you can stay behind and I’ll get your things myself ” “ No , I wanna come , I want to see Fred and George’s shop ! ”
 said Ron hastily .
 “ Then you just buck up your ideas , young man , before I decide you’re too immature to come with us ! ”
 said Mrs Weasley angrily , snatching up her clock , all nine hands of which were still pointing at “ mortal peril , ” and balancing it on top of a pile of just laundered towels .
 “ And that goes for returning to Hogwarts as well ! ”
 Ron turned to stare incredulously at Harry as his mother hoisted the laundry basket and the teetering clock into her arms and stormed out of the room .
 “ Blimey you can’t even make a joke round here anymore . ”
 But Ron was careful not to be flippant about Voldemort over the next few days .
 Saturday dawned without any more outbursts from Mrs Weasley , though she seemed very tense at breakfast .
 Bill , who would be staying at home with Fleur ( much to Hermione and Ginny’s pleasure ) , passed a full money bag across the table to Harry .
 “ Where’s mine ? ”
 demanded Ron at once , his eyes wide .
 “ That’s already Harry’s , idiot , ” said Bill .
 “ I got it out of your vault for you , Harry , because it’s taking about five hours for the public to get to their gold at the moment , the goblins have tightened security so much .
 Two days ago Arkie Philpott had a Probity Probe stuck up his Well , trust me , this way’s easier . ”
 “ Thanks , Bill , ” said Harry , pocketing his gold .
 “ ’ E is always so thoughtful , ” purred Fleur adoringly , stroking Bill’s nose .
 Ginny mimed vomiting into her cereal behind Fleur .
 Harry choked over his cornflakes , and Ron thumped him on the back .
 It was an overcast , murky day .
 One of the special Ministry of Magic cars , in which Harry had ridden once before , was awaiting them in the front yard when they emerged from the house , pulling on their cloaks .
 “ It’s good Dad can get us these again , ” said Ron appreciatively , stretching luxuriously as the car moved smoothly away from the Burrow , Bill and Fleur waving from the kitchen window .
 He , Harry , Hermione , and Ginny were all sitting in roomy comfort in the wide backseat .
 “ Don’t get used to it , it’s only because of Harry , ” said Mr Weasley over his shoulder .
 He and Mrs Weasley were in front with the Ministry driver the front passenger seat had obligingly stretched into what resembled a two seater sofa .
 “ He’s been given top grade security status .
 And we’ll be joining up with additional security at the Leaky Cauldron too . ”
 Harry said nothing he did not much fancy doing his shopping while surrounded by a battalion of Aurors .
 He had stowed his Invisibility Cloak in his backpack and felt that , if that was good enough for Dumbledore , it ought to be good enough for the Ministry , though now he came to think of it , he was not sure the Ministry knew about his cloak .
 “ Here you are , then , ” said the driver , a surprisingly short while later , speaking for the first time as he slowed in Charing Cross Road and stopped outside the Leaky Cauldron .
 “ I’m to wait for you , any idea how long you 11 be ? ”
 “ A couple of hours , I expect , ” said Mr Weasley .
 “ Ah , good , he’s here ! ”
 Harry imitated Mr Weasley and peered through the window his heart leapt .
 There were no Aurors waiting outside the inn , but instead the gigantic , black bearded form of Rubeus Hagrid , the Hogwarts gamekeeper , wearing a long beaverskin coat , beaming at the sight of Harry’s face and oblivious to the startled stares of passing Muggles .
 “ Harry ! ”
 he boomed , sweeping Harry into a bone crushing hug the moment Harry had stepped out of the car .
 “ Buckbeak Witherwings , I mean yeh should see him , Harry , he’s so happy ter be back in the open air ” “ Glad he’s pleased , ” said Harry , grinning as he massaged his ribs .
 “ We didn’t know ‘ security ’ meant you ! ”
 “ I know , jus ’ like old times , innit ?
 See , the Ministry wanted ter send a bunch o ’ Aurors , but Dumbledore said I’d do , ” said Hagrid proudly , throwing out his chest and tucking his thumbs into his pockets .
 “ Let’s get goin ’ then after yeh , Molly , Arthur ” The Leaky Cauldron was , for the first time in Harry’s memory , completely empty .
 Only Tom the landlord , wizened and toothless , remained of the old crowd .
 He looked up hopefully as they entered , but before he could speak , Hagrid said importantly , “ Jus ’ passin ’ through today , Tom , sure yeh understand , Hogwarts business , yeh know . ”
 Tom nodded gloomily and returned to wiping glasses Harry , Hermione , Hagrid , and the Weasleys walked through the bar and out into the chilly little courtyard at the back where the dustbins stood .
 Hagrid raised his pink umbrella and rapped a certain brick in the wall , which opened at once to form an archway onto a winding cobbled street .
 They stepped through the entrance and paused , looking around .
 Diagon Alley had changed .
 The colorful , glittering window displays of spellbooks , potion ingredients , and cauldrons were lost to view , hidden behind the large Ministry of Magic posters that had been pasted over them .
 Most of these somber purple posters carried blown up versions of the security advice on the Ministry pamphlets that had been sent out over the summer , but others bore moving black and white photographs of Death Eaters known to be on the loose .
 Bellatrix Lestrange was sneering from the front of the nearest apothecary .
 A few windows were boarded up , including those of Florean Fortescue’s Ice Cream Parlor .
 On the other hand , a number of shabby looking stalls had sprung up along the street .
 The nearest one , which had been erected outside Flourish and Blotts , under a striped , stained awning , had a cardboard sign pinned to its front : AMULETS Effective Against Werewolves , Dementors , and Inferi A seedy looking little wizard was rattling armfuls of silver symbols on chains at passersby .
 “ One for your little girl , madam ? ”
 he called at Mrs Weasley as they passed , leering at Ginny .
 “ Protect her pretty neck ? ”
 “ If I were on duty ” said Mr Weasley , glaring angrily at the amulet seller .
 “ Yes , but don’t go arresting anyone now , dear , we’re in a hurry , ” said Mrs Weasley , nervously consulting a list .
 “ I think we’d better do Madam Malkin’s first , Hermione wants new dress robes , and Ron’s showing much too much ankle in his school robes , and you must need new ones too , Harry , you’ve grown so much come on , everyone ” “ Molly , it doesn’t make sense for all of us to go to Madam Malkin’s , ” said Mr Weasley .
 “ Why don’t those three go with Hagrid , and we can go to Flourish and Blotts and get everyone’s schoolbooks ? ”
 “ I don’t know , ” said Mrs Weasley anxiously , clearly torn between a desire to finish the shopping quickly and the wish to stick together in a pack .
 “ Hagrid , do you think ? ”
 “ Don ’ fret , they’ll be fine with me , Molly , ” said Hagrid soothingly , waving an airy hand the size of a dustbin lid .
 Mrs Weasley did not look entirely convinced , but allowed the separation , scurrying off toward Flourish and Blotts with her husband and Ginny while Harry , Ron , Hermione , and Hagrid set off for Madam Malkin’s .
 Harry noticed that many of the people who passed them had the same harried , anxious look as Mrs Weasley , and that nobody was stopping to talk anymore the shoppers stayed together in their own tightly knit groups , moving intently about their business .
 Nobody seemed to be shopping alone .
 “ Migh ’ be a bit of a squeeze in there with all of us , ” said Hagrid , stopping outside Madam Malkin’s and bending down to peer through the window .
 “ I’ll stand guard outside , all right ? ”
 So Harry , Ron , and Hermione entered the little shop together .
 It appeared , at first glance , to be empty , but no sooner had the door swung shut behind them than they heard a familiar voice issuing from behind a rack of dress robes in spangled green and blue . “
 not a child , in case you haven’t noticed , Mother .
 I am perfectly capable of doing my shopping alone . ”
 There was a clucking noise and a voice Harry recognized as that of Madam Malkin , the owner , said , “ Now , dear , your mother’s quite right , none of us is supposed to go wandering around on our own anymore , it’s nothing to do with being a child ” “ Watch where you’re sticking that pin , will you ! ”
 A teenage boy with a pale , pointed face and white blond hair appeared from behind the rack , wearing a handsome set of dark green robes that glittered with pins around the hem and the edges of the sleeves .
 He strode to the mirror and examined himself it was a few moments before he noticed Harry , Ron , and Hermione reflected over his shoulder .
 His light gray eyes narrowed .
 “ If you’re wondering what the smell is , Mother , a Mudblood just walked in , ” said Draco Malfoy .
 “ I don’t think there’s any need for language like that ! ”
 said Madam Malkin , scurrying out from behind the clothes rack holding a tape measure and a wand .
 “ And I don’t want wands drawn in my shop either ! ”
 she added hastily , for a glance toward the door had shown her Harry and Ron both standing there with their wands out and pointing at Malfoy .
 Hermione , who was standing slightly behind them , whispered , “ No , don’t , honestly , it’s not worth it . ”
 “ Yeah , like you’d dare do magic out of school , ” sneered Malfoy .
 “ Who blacked your eye , Granger ?
 I want to send them flowers . ”
 “ That’s quite enough ! ”
 said Madam Malkin sharply , looking over her shoulder for support .
 “ Madam please ” Narcissa Malfoy strolled out from behind the clothes rack .
 “ Put those away , ” she said coldly to Harry and Ron .
 “ If you attack my son again , I shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do . ”
 “ Really ? ”
 said Harry , taking a step forward and gazing into the smoothly arrogant face that , for all its pallor , still resembled her sister’s .
 He was as tall as she was now .
 “ Going to get a few Death Eater pals to do us in , are you ? ”
 Madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart .
 “ Really , you shouldn’t accuse dangerous thing to say wands away , please ! ”
 But Harry did not lower his wand .
 Narcissa Malfoy smiled unpleasantly .
 “ I see that being Dumbledore’s favorite has given you a false sense of security , Harry Potter .
 But Dumbledore won’t always be there to protect you . ”
 Harry looked mockingly all around the shop .
 “ Wow look at that he’s not here now !
 So why not have a go ?
 They might be able to find you a double cell in Azkaban with your loser of a husband ! ”
 Malfoy made an angry movement toward Harry , but stumbled over his overlong robe .
 Ron laughed loudly .
 “ Don’t you dare talk to my mother like that , Potter ! ”
 Malfoy snarled .
 “ It’s all right , Draco , ” said Narcissa , restraining him with her thin white fingers upon his shoulder .
 “ I expect Potter will be reunited with dear Sirius before I am reunited with Lucius . ”
 Harry raised his wand higher .
 “ Harry , no ! ”
 moaned Hermione , grabbing his arm and attempting to push it down by his side .
 “ Think .
 You mustn’t .
 You’ll be in such trouble . ”
 Madam Malkin dithered for a moment on the spot , then seemed to decide to act as though nothing was happening in the hope that it wouldn’t .
 She bent toward Malfoy , who was still glaring at Harry .
 “ I think this left sleeve could come up a little bit more , dear , let me just ” “ Ouch ! ”
 bellowed Malfoy , slapping her hand away .
 “ Watch where you’re putting your pins , woman !
 Mother I don’t think I want these anymore ” He pulled the robes over his head and threw them onto the floor at Madam Malkin’s feet .
 “ You’re right , Draco , ” said Narcissa , with a contemptuous glance at Hermione , “ now I know the kind of scum that shops here .
 We’ll do better at Twilfitt and Tatting’s . ”
 And with that , the pair of them strode out of the shop , Malfoy taking care to bang as hard as he could into Ron on the way out .
 “ Well , reallyl ” said Madam Malkin , snatching up the fallen robes and moving the tip of her wand over them like a vacuum cleaner , so that it removed all the dust .
 She was distracted all through the fitting of Ron’s and Harry’s new robes , tried to sell Hermione wizard’s dress robes instead of witch’s , and when she finally bowed them out of the shop it was with an air of being glad to see the back of them .
 “ Got ev’rything ? ”
 asked Hagrid brightly when they reappeared at his side .
 “ Just about , ” said Harry .
 “ Did you see the Malfoys ? ”
 “ Yeah , ” said Hagrid , unconcerned .
 “ Bu ’ they wouldn ’ dare make trouble in the middle o ’ Diagon Alley , Harry .
 Don ’ worry abou ’ them . ”
 Harry , Ron , and Hermione exchanged looks , but before they could disabuse Hagrid of this comfortable notion , Mr and Mrs Weasley and Ginny appeared , all clutching heavy packages of books .
 “ Everyone all right ? ”
 said Mrs Weasley .
 “ Got your robes ?
 Right then , we can pop in at the Apothecary and Eeylops on the way to Fred and George’s stick close , now . ”
 Neither Harry nor Ron bought any ingredients at the Apothecary , seeing that they were no longer studying Potions , but both bought large boxes of owl nuts for Hedwig and Pigwidgeon at Eeylops Owl Emporium .
 Then , with Mrs Weasley checking her watch every minute or so , they headed farther along the street in search of Weasleys ’ Wizard Wheezes , the joke shop run by Fred and George .
 “ We really haven’t got too long , ” Mrs Weasley said .
 “ So we’ll just have a quick look around and then back to the car .
 We must be close , that’s number ninety two ninety four ” “ Whoa , ” said Ron , stopping in his tracks .
 Set against the dull , poster muffled shop fronts around them , Fred and George’s windows hit the eye like a firework display .
 Casual passersby were looking back over their shoulders at the windows , and a few rather stunned looking people had actually come to a halt , transfixed .
 The left hand window was dazzlingly full of an assortment of goods that revolved , popped , flashed , bounced , and shrieked Harry’s eyes began to water just looking at it .
 The right hand window was covered with a gigantic poster , purple like those of the Ministry , but emblazoned with flashing yellow letters : WHY ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT YOU KNOW WHO ?
 YOU SHOULD BE WORRYING ABOUT U NO POO THE CONSTIPATION SENSATION THAT’S GRIPPING THE NATION !
 Harry started to laugh .
 He heard a weak sort of moan beside him and looked around to see Mrs Weasley gazing , dumbfounded , at the poster .
 Her lips moved silently , mouthing the name “ U No Poo . ”
 “ They’ll be murdered in their beds ! ”
 she whispered .
 “ No they won’t ! ”
 said Ron , who , like Harry , was laughing .
 “ This is brilliant ! ”
 And he and Harry led the way into the shop .
 It was packed with customers Harry could not get near the shelves .
 He stared around , looking up at the boxes piled to the ceiling : Here were the Skiving Snackboxes that the twins had perfected during their last , unfinished year at Hogwarts Harry noticed that the Nosebleed Nougat was most popular , with only one battered box left on the shelf .
 There were bins full of trick wands , the cheapest merely turning into rubber chickens or pairs of briefs when waved , the most expensive beating the unwary user around the head and neck , and boxes of quills , which came in Self Inking , Spell Checking , and Smart Answer varieties .
 A space cleared in the crowd , and Harry pushed his way toward the counter , where a gaggle of delighted ten year olds was watching a tiny little wooden man slowly ascending the steps to a real set of gallows , both perched on a box that read : REUSABLE HANGMAN SPELL IT OR HE’LL SWING !
 “ ‘ Patented Daydream Charms ’ ” Hermione had managed to squeeze through to a large display near the counter and was reading the information on the back of a box bearing a highly colored picture of a handsome youth and a swooning girl who were standing on the deck of a pirate ship .
 “ ‘ One simple incantation and you will enter a top quality , highly realistic , thirty minute daydream , easy to fit into the average school lesson and virtually undetectable ( side effects include vacant expression and minor drooling ) .
 Not for sale to under sixteens . ’
 You know , ” said Hermione , looking up at Harry , “ that really is extraordinary magic ! ”
 “ For that , Hermione , ” said a voice behind them , “ you can have one for free . ”
 A beaming Fred stood before them , wearing a set of magenta robes that clashed magnificently with his flaming hair .
 “ How are you , Harry ? ”
 They shook hands .
 “ And what’s happened to your eye , Hermione ? ”
 “ Your punching telescope , ” she said ruefully .
 “ Oh blimey , I forgot about those , ” said Fred .
 “ Here ” He pulled a tub out of his pocket and handed it to her she unscrewed it gingerly to reveal a thick yellow paste .
 “ Just dab it on , that bruise’ll be gone within the hour , ” said Fred .
 “ We had to find a decent bruise remover .
 We’re testing most of our products on ourselves . ”
 Hermione looked nervous .
 “ It is safe , isn’t it ? ”
 she asked .
 “ ’ Course it is , ” said Fred bracingly .
 “ Come on , Harry , I’ll give you a tour . ”
 Harry left Hermione dabbing her black eye with paste and followed Fred toward the back of the shop , where he saw a stand of card and rope tricks .
 “ Muggle magic tricks ! ”
 said Fred happily , pointing them out .
 “ For freaks like Dad , you know , who love Muggle stuff .
 It’s not a big earner , but we do fairly steady business , they’re great novelties .
 Oh , here’s George . ”
 Fred’s twin shook Harry’s hand energetically .
 “ Giving him the tour ?
 Come through the back , Harry , that’s where we’re making the real money pocket anything , you , and you’ll pay in more than GalleonsV ’ he added warningly to a small boy who hastily whipped his hand out of the tub labeled EDIBLE DARK MARKS THEY’LL MAKE ANYONE SICK !
 George pushed back a curtain beside the Muggle tricks and Harry saw a darker , less crowded room .
 The packaging on the products lining these shelves was more subdued .
 “ We’ve just developed this more serious line , ” said Fred .
 “ Funny how it happened ” “ You wouldn’t believe how many people , even people who work at the Ministry , can’t do a decent Shield Charm , ” said George .
 “ ’ Course , they didn’t have you teaching them , Harry . ”
 “ That’s right .
 Well , we thought Shield Hats were a bit of a laugh , you know , challenge your mate to jinx you while wearing it and watch his face when the jinx just bounces off .
 But the Ministry bought five hundred for all its support staff !
 And we’re still getting massive orders ! ”
 “ So we’ve expanded into a range of Shield Cloaks , Shield Gloves ” “ I mean , they wouldn’t help much against the Unforgivable Curses , but for minor to moderate hexes or jinxes ” “ And then we thought we’d get into the whole area of Defense Against the Dark Arts , because it’s such a money spinner , ” continued George enthusiastically .
 “ This is cool .
 Look , Instant Darkness Powder , we’re importing it from Peru .
 Handy if you want to make a quick escape . ”
 “ And our Decoy Detonators are just walking off the shelves , look , ” said Fred , pointing at a number of weird looking black horn type objects that were indeed attempting to scurry out of sight .
 “ You just drop one surreptitiously and it’ll run off and make a nice loud noise out of sight , giving you a diversion if you need one .
 “ Handy , ” said Harry , impressed .
 “ Here , ” said George , catching a couple and throwing them to Harry .
 A young witch with short blonde hair poked her head around the curtain Harry saw that she too was wearing magenta staff robes .
 “ There’s a customer out here looking for a joke cauldron , Mr Weasley and Mr Weasley , ” she said .
 Harry found it very odd to hear Fred and George called “ Mr Weasley , ” but they took it in their stride .
 “ Right you are , Verity , I’m coming , ” said George promptly .
 “ Harry , you help yourself to anything you want , all right ?
 No charge . ”
 “ I can’t do that ! ”
 said Harry , who had already pulled out his money bag to pay for the Decoy Detonators .
 “ You don’t pay here , ” said Fred firmly , waving away Harry’s gold .
 “ But ” “ You gave us our start up loan , we haven’t forgotten , ” said George sternly .
 “ Take whatever you like , and just remember to tell people where you got it , if they ask . ”
 George swept off through the curtain to help with the customers , and Fred led Harry back into the main part of the shop to find Hermione and Ginny still poring over the Patented Daydream Charms .
 “ Haven’t you girls found our special WonderWitch products yet ? ”
 asked Fred .
 “ Follow me , ladies . ”
 Near the window was an array of violently pink products around which a cluster of excited girls was giggling enthusiastically .
 Hermione and Ginny both hung back , looking wary .
 “ There you go , ” said Fred proudly .
 “ Best range of love potions you’ll find anywhere . ”
 Ginny raised an eyebrow skeptically .
 “ Do they work ? ”
 she asked .
 “ Certainly they work , for up to twenty four hours at a time depending on the weight of the boy in question “ and the attractiveness of the girl , ” said George , reappearing suddenly at their side .
 “ But we’re not selling them to our sister , ” he added , becoming suddenly stern , “ not when she’s already got about five boys on the go from what we’ve ” “ Whatever you’ve heard from Ron is a big fat lie , ” said Ginny calmly , leaning forward to take a small pink pot off the shelf .
 “ What’s this ? ”
 “ Guaranteed ten second pimple vanisher , ” said Fred .
 “ Excellent on everything from boils to blackheads , but don’t change the subject .
 Are you or are you not currently going out with a boy called Dean Thomas ? ”
 “ Yes , I am , ” said Ginny .
 “ And last time I looked , he was definitely one boy , not five .
 What are those ? ”
 She was pointing at a number of round balls of fluff in shades of pink and purple , all rolling around the bottom of a cage and emitting high pitched squeaks .
 “ Pygmy Puffs , ” said George .
 “ Miniature puffskeins , we can’t breed them fast enough .
 So what about Michael Corner ? ”
 “ I dumped him , he was a bad loser , ” said Ginny , putting a finger through the bars of the cage and watching the Pygmy Puffs crowd around it .
 “ They’re really cute ! ”
 “ They’re fairly cuddly , yes , ” conceded Fred .
 “ But you’re moving through boyfriends a bit fast , aren’t you ? ”
 Ginny turned to look at him , her hands on her hips .
 There was such a Mrs Weasley ish glare on her face that Harry was surprised Fred didn’t recoil .
 “ It’s none of your business .
 And I’ll thank you , ” she added angrily to Ron , who had just appeared at George’s elbow , laden with merchandise , “ not to tell tales about me to these two ! ”
 “ That’s three Galleons , nine Sickles , and a Knut , ” said Fred , examining the many boxes in Ron’s arms .
 “ Cough up . ”
 “ I’m your brother ! ”
 “ And that’s our stuff you’re nicking .
 Three Galleons , nine Sickles .
 I’ll knock off the Knut . ”
 “ But I haven’t got three Galleons , nine Sickles ! ”
 “ You’d better put it back then , and mind you put it on the right shelves . ”
 Ron dropped several boxes , swore , and made a rude hand gesture at Fred that was unfortunately spotted by Mrs Weasley , who had chosen that moment to appear .
 “ If I see you do that again I’ll jinx your fingers together , ” she said sharply .
 “ Mum , can I have a Pygmy Puff ? ”
 said Ginny at once .
 “ A what ? ”
 said Mrs Weasley warily .
 “ Look , they’re so sweet . ”
 Mrs Weasley moved aside to look at the Pygmy Puffs , and Harry , Ron , and Hermione momentarily had an unimpeded view out of the window .
 Draco Malfoy was hurrying up the street alone .
 As he passed Weasleys ’ Wizard Wheezes , he glanced over his shoulder .
 Seconds later , he moved beyond the scope of the window and they lost sight of him .
 “ Wonder where his mummy is ? ”
 said Harry , frowning .
 “ Given her the slip by the looks of it , ” said Ron .
 “ Why , though ? ”
 said Hermione .
 Harry said nothing he was thinking too hard .
 Narcissa Malfoy would not have let her precious son out of her sight willingly Malfoy must have made a real effort to free himself from her clutches .
 Harry , knowing and loathing Malfoy , was sure the reason could not be innocent .
 He glanced around .
 Mrs Weasley and Ginny were bending over the Pygmy Puffs .
 Mr Weasley was delightedly examining a pack of Muggle marked playing cards .
 Fred and George were both helping customers .
 On the other side of the glass , Hagrid was standing with his back to them , looking up and down the street .
 “ Get under here , quick , ” said Harry , pulling his Invisibility Cloak out of his bag .
 “ Oh I don’t know , Harry , ” said Hermione , looking uncertainly toward Mrs Weasley .
 “ Come on ” said Ron .
 She hesitated for a second longer , then ducked under the cloak with Harry and Ron .
 Nobody noticed them vanish they were all too interested in Fred and George’s products .
 Harry , Ron , and Hermione squeezed their way out of the door as quickly as they could , but by the time they gained the street , Malfoy had disappeared just as successfully as they had .
 “ He was going in that direction , ” murmured Harry as quietly as possible , so that the humming Hagrid would not hear them .
 “ C’mon . ”
 They scurried along , peering left and right , through shop windows and doors , until Hermione pointed ahead .
 “ That’s him , isn’t it ? ”
 she whispered .
 “ Turning left ? ”
 “ Big surprise , ” whispered Ron .
 For Malfoy had glanced around , then slid into Knockturn Alley and out of sight .
 “ Quick , or we’ll lose him , ” said Harry , speeding up .
 “ Our feet’ll be seen ! ”
 said Hermione anxiously , as the cloak flapped a little around their ankles it was much more difficult hiding all three of them under the cloak nowadays .
 “ It doesn’t matter , ” said Harry impatiently .
 “ Just hurry ! ”
 But Knockturn Alley , the side street devoted to the Dark Arts , looked completely deserted .
 They peered into windows as they passed , but none of the shops seemed to have any customers at all .
 Harry supposed it was a bit of a giveaway in these dangerous and suspicious times to buy Dark artifacts or at least , to be seen buying them .
 Hermione gave his arm a hard pinch .
 “ Ouch ! ”
 “ Shh !
 Look !
 He’s in there ! ”
 she breathed in Harry’s ear .
 They had drawn level with the only shop in Knockturn Alley that Harry had ever visited , Borgin and Burkes , which sold a wide variety of sinister objects .
 There in the midst of the cases full of skulls and old bottles stood Draco Malfoy with his back to them , just visible beyond the very same large black cabinet in which Harry had once hidden to avoid Malfoy and his father .
 Judging by the movements of Malfoy’s hands , he was talking animatedly .
 The proprietor of the shop , Mr Borgin , an oily haired , stooping man , stood facing Malfoy .
 He was wearing a curious expression of mingled resentment and fear .
 “ If only we could hear what they’re saying ! ”
 said Hermione .
 “ We can ! ”
 said Ron excitedly .
 “ Hang on damn ” He dropped a couple more of the boxes he was still clutching as he fumbled with the largest .
 “ Extendable Ears , look ! ”
 “ Fantastic ! ”
 said Hermione , as Ron unraveled the long , fleshcolored strings and began to feed them toward the bottom of the door .
 “ Oh , I hope the door isn’t Imperturbable ” “ No ! ”
 said Ron gleefully .
 “ Listen ! ”
 They put their heads together and listened intently to the ends of the strings , through which Malfoy’s voice could be heard loud and clear , as though a radio had been turned on . “
 you know how to fix it ? ”
 “ Possibly , ” said Borgin , in a tone that suggested he was unwilling to commit himself .
 “ I’ll need to see it , though .
 Why don’t you bring it into the shop ? ”
 “ I can’t , ” said Malfoy .
 “ It’s got to stay put .
 I just need you to tell me how to do it . ”
 Harry saw Borgin lick his lips nervously .
 “ Well , without seeing it , I must say it will be a very difficult job , perhaps impossible .
 I couldn’t guarantee anything . ”
 “ No ? ”
 said Malfoy , and Harry knew , just by his tone , that Malfoy was sneering .
 “ Perhaps this will make you more confident . ”
 He moved toward Borgin and was blocked from view by the cabinet .
 Harry , Ron , and Hermione shuffled sideways to try and keep him in sight , but all they could see was Borgin , looking very frightened .
 “ Tell anyone , ” said Malfoy , “ and there will be retribution .
 You know Fenrir Greyback ?
 He’s a family friend .
 He’ll be dropping in from time to time to make sure you’re giving the problem your full attention . ”
 “ There will be no need for ” “ I’ll decide that , ” said Malfoy .
 “ Well , I’d better be off .
 And don’t forget to keep that one safe , I’ll need it . ”
 “ Perhaps you’d like to take it now ? ”
 “ No , of course I wouldn’t , you stupid little man , how would I look carrying that down the street ?
 Just don’t sell it . ”
 “ Of course not sir . ”
 Borgin made a bow as deep as the one Harry had once seen him give Lucius Malfoy .
 “ Not a word to anyone , Borgin , and that includes my mother , understand ? ”
 “ Naturally , naturally , ” murmured Borgin , bowing again .
 Next moment , the bell over the door tinkled loudly as Malfoy stalked out of the shop looking very pleased with himself .
 He passed so close to Harry , Ron , and Hermione that they felt the cloak flutter around their knees again .
 Inside the shop , Borgin remained frozen his unctuous smile had vanished he looked worried .
 “ What was that about ? ”
 whispered Ron , reeling in the Extendable Ears .
 “ Dunno , ” said Harry , thinking hard .
 “ He wants something mended and he wants to reserve something in there .
 Could you see what he pointed at when he said ‘ that one ’ ? ”
 “ No , he was behind that cabinet ” “ You two stay here , ” whispered Hermione .
 “ What are you ? ”
 But Hermione had already ducked out from under the cloak .
 She checked her hair in the reflection in the glass , then marched into the shop , setting the bell tinkling again .
 Ron hastily fed the Extendable Ears back under the door and passed one of the strings to Harry .
 “ Hello , horrible morning , isn’t it ? ”
 Hermione said brightly to Borgin , who did not answer , but cast her a suspicious look .
 Humming cheerily , Hermione strolled through the jumble of objects on display .
 “ Is this necklace for sale ? ”
 she asked , pausing beside a glass fronted case .
 “ If you’ve got one and a half thousand Galleons , ” said Mr Borgin coldly .
 “ Oh er no , I haven’t got quite that much , ” said Hermione , walking on .
 “ And what about this lovely um skull ? ”
 “ Sixteen Galleons . ”
 “ So it’s for sale , then ?
 It isn’t being kept for anyone ? ”
 Mr Borgin squinted at her .
 Harry had the nasty feeling he knew exactly what Hermione was up to .
 Apparently Hermione felt she had been rumbled too because she suddenly threw caution to the winds .
 “ The thing is , that er boy who was in here just now , Draco Malfoy , well , he’s a friend of mine , and I want to get him a birthday present , but if he’s already reserved anything , I obviously don’t want to get him the same thing , so um ” It was a pretty lame story in Harry’s opinion , and apparently Borgin thought so too .
 “ Out , ” he said sharply .
 “ Get out ! ”
 Hermione did not wait to be asked twice , but hurried to the door with Borgin at her heels .
 As the bell tinkled again , Borgin slammed the door behind her and put up the closed sign .
 “ Ah well , ” said Ron , throwing the cloak back over Hermione .
 “ Worth a try , but you were a bit obvious “ Well , next time you can show me how it’s done , Master of Mystery ! ”
 she snapped .
 Ron and Hermione bickered all the way back to Weasleys ’ Wizard Wheezes , where they were forced to stop so that they could dodge undetected around a very anxious looking Mrs Weasley and Hagrid , who had clearly noticed their absence .
 Once in the shop , Harry whipped off the Invisibility Cloak , hid it in his bag , and joined in with the other two when they insisted , in answer to Mrs Weasley’s accusations , that they had been in the back room all along , and that she could not have looked properly .