Chapter : AFTER THE BURIAL .
 Patches of bright blue sky were beginning to appear over the castle turrets , but these signs of approaching summer did not lift Harry’s mood .
 He had been thwarted , both in his attempts to find out what Malfoy was doing , and in his efforts to start a conversation with Slughorn that might lead , somehow , to Slughorn handing over the memory he had apparently suppressed for decades .
 “ For the last time , just forget about Malfoy , ” Hermione told Harry firmly .
 They were sitting with Ron in a sunny corner of the courtyard after lunch .
 Hermione and Ron were both clutching a Ministry of Magic leaflet Common Apparition Mistakes and How to Avoid Them for they were taking their tests that very afternoon , but by and large the leaflets had not proved soothing to the nerves .
 Ron gave a start and tried to hide behind Hermione as a girl came around the corner .
 “ It isn’t Lavender , ” said Hermione wearily .
 “ Oh , good , ” said Ron , relaxing .
 “ Harry Potter ? ”
 said the girl .
 “ I was asked to give you this . ”
 “ Thanks ” Harry’s heart sank as he took the small scroll of parchment .
 Once the girl was out of earshot he said , “ Dumbledore said we wouldn’t be having any more lessons until I got the memory ! ”
 “ Maybe he wants to check on how you’re doing ? ”
 suggested Hermione , as Harry unrolled the parchment but rather than finding Dumbledore ’ s long , narrow , slanted writing he saw an untidy sprawl , very difficult to read due to the presence of large blotches on the parchment where the ink had run .
 Dear Harry , Ron , and Hermione , Aragog died last night Harry and Ron , you met him , and you know how special he was .
 Hermione , I know you’d have liked him .
 It would mean a lot to me if you’d nip down for the burial later this evening .
 I’m planning on doing it round dusk , that was his favorite time of day .
 I know you’re not supposed to be out that late , but you can use the cloak .
 Wouldn’t ask , but I can’t face it alone .
 Hagrid “ Look at this , ” said Harry , handing the note to Hermione .
 “ Oh , for heaven’s sake , ” she said , scanning it quickly and passing it to Ron , who read it through looking increasingly incredulous .
 “ He’s mentaft ” he said furiously .
 “ That thing told its mates to eat Harry and me !
 Told them to help themselves !
 And now Hagrid expects us to go down there and cry over its horrible hairy body ! ”
 “ It’s not just that , ” said Hermione .
 “ He’s asking us to leave the castle at night and he knows security’s a million times tighter and how much trouble we’d be in if we were caught . ”
 “ We’ve been down to see him by night before , ” said Harry .
 “ Yes , but for something like this ? ”
 said Hermione .
 “ We’ve risked a lot to help Hagrid out , but after all Aragog’s dead .
 If it were a question of saving him ” “ I’d want to go even less , ” said Ron firmly .
 “ You didn’t meet him , Hermione .
 Believe me , being dead will have improved him a lot . ”
 Harry took the note back and stared down at all the inky blotches all over it .
 Tears had clearly fallen thick and fast upon the parchment .
 “ Harry , you can’t be thinking of going , ” said Hermione .
 “ It’s such a pointless thing to get detention for . ”
 Harry sighed .
 “ Yeah , I know , ” he said .
 “ I s’pose Hagrid ’ ll have to bury Aragog without us . ”
 “ Yes , he will , ” said Hermione , looking relieved .
 “ Look , Potions will be almost empty this afternoon , with us all off doing our tests .
 Try and soften Slughorn up a bit then ! ”
 “ Fifty seventh time lucky , you think ? ”
 said Harry bitterly .
 “ Lucky , ” said Ron suddenly .
 “ Harry , that’s it get lucky ! ”
 “ What d’you mean ? ”
 “ Use your lucky potion ! ”
 “ Ron , that’s that’s it ! ”
 said Hermione , sounding stunned .
 “ Of course !
 Why didn’t I think of it ? ”
 Harry stared at them both .
 “ Felix Felicis ? ”
 he said .
 “ I dunno I was sort of saving it . ”
 “ What for ? ”
 demanded Ron incredulously .
 “ What on earth is more important than this memory , Harry ? ”
 asked Hermione .
 Harry did not answer .
 The thought of that little golden bottle had hovered on the edges of his imagination for some time vague and unformulated plans that involved Ginny splitting up with Dean , and Ron somehow being happy to see her with a new boyfriend , had been fermenting in the depths of his brain , unacknowledged except during dreams or the twilight time between sleeping and waking .
 “ Harry ?
 Are you still with us ? ”
 asked Hermione .
 “ Wha ?
 Yeah , of course , ” he said , pulling himself together .
 “ Well okay .
 If I can’t get Slughorn to talk this afternoon , I’ll take some Felix and have another go this evening . ”
 “ That’s decided , then , ” said Hermione briskly , getting to her feet and performing a graceful pirouette .
 “ Destination determination deliberation ” she murmured .
 “ Oh , stop that , ” Ron begged her , “ I feel sick enough as it is quick , hide me ! ”
 “ It isn’t Lavender ! ”
 said Hermione impatiently , as another couple of girls appeared in the courtyard and Ron dived behind her .
 “ Cool , ” said Ron , peering over Hermione’s shoulder to check .
 “ Blimey , they don’t look happy , do they ? ”
 “ They’re the Montgomery sisters and of course they don’t look happy , didn’t you hear what happened to their little brother ? ”
 said Hermione .
 “ I’m losing track of what’s happening to everyone’s relatives , to be honest , ” said Ron .
 “ Well , their brother was attacked by a werewolf .
 The rumor is that their mother refused to help the Death Eaters .
 Anyway , the boy was only five and he died in St .
 Mungo’s , they couldn’t save him . ”
 “ He died ? ”
 repeated Harry , shocked .
 “ But surely werewolves don’t kill , they just turn you into one of them ? ”
 “ They sometimes kill , ” said Ron , who looked unusually grave now .
 “ I’ve heard of it happening when the werewolf gets carried away . ”
 “ What was the werewolf’s name ? ”
 said Harry quickly .
 “ Well , the rumor is that it was that Fenrir Greyback , ” said Hermione .
 “ I knew it the maniac who likes attacking kids , the one Lupin told me about ! ”
 said Harry angrily .
 Hermione looked at him bleakly .
 “ Harry , you’ve got to get that memory , ” she said .
 “ It’s all about stopping Voldemort , isn’t it ?
 These dreadful things that are happening are all down to him . ”
 The bell rang overhead in the castle and both Hermione and Ron jumped to their feet , looking terrified .
 “ You’ll do fine , ” Harry told them both , as they headed toward the entrance hall to meet the rest of the people taking their Apparition Test .
 “ Good luck . ”
 “ And you too ! ”
 said Hermione with a significant look , as Harry headed off to the dungeons .
 There were only three of them in Potions that afternoon : Harry , Ernie , and Draco Malfoy .
 “ All too young to Apparate just yet ? ”
 said Slughorn genially .
 “ Not turned seventeen yet ? ”
 They shook their heads .
 “ Ah well , ” said Slughorn cheerily , “ as we’re so few , we’ll do something fun .
 I want you all to brew me up something amusing ! ”
 “ That sounds good , sir , ” said Ernie sycophantically , rubbing his hands together .
 Malfoy , on the other hand , did not crack a smile .
 “ What do you mean , ‘ something amusing ? ”
 he said irritably .
 “ Oh , surprise me , ” said Slughorn airily .
 Malfoy opened his copy of Advanced Potion Making with a sulky expression .
 It could not have been plainer that he thought this lesson was a waste of time .
 Undoubtedly , Harry thought , watching him over the top of his own book , Malfoy was begrudging the time he could otherwise be spending in the Room of Requirement .
 Was it his imagination , or did Malfoy , like Tonks , look thinner ?
 Certainly he looked paler his skin still had that grayish tinge , probably because he so rarely saw daylight these days .
 But there was no air of smugness , excitement , or superiority none of the swagger that he had had on the Hogwarts Express , when he had boasted openly of the mission he had been given by Voldemort .
 There could be only one conclusion , in Harry’s opinion : The mission , whatever it was , was going badly .
 Cheered by this thought , Harry skimmed through his copy of Advanced Potion Making and found a heavily corrected Half Blood Prince’s version of “ An Elixir to Induce Euphoria , ” which seemed not only to meet Slughorn ’ s instructions , but which might ( Harry’s heart leapt as the thought struck him ) put Slughorn into such a good mood that he would be prepared to hand over that memory if Harry could persuade him to taste some .
 “ Well , now , this looks absolutely wonderful , ” said Slughorn an hour and a half later , clapping his hands together as he stared down into the sunshine yellow contents of Harry’s cauldron .
 “ Euphoria , I take it ?
 And what’s that I smell ?
 Mmmm you’ve added just a sprig of peppermint , haven’t you ?
 Unorthodox , but what a stroke of inspiration , Harry , of course , that would tend to counterbalance the occasional side effects of excessive singing and nose tweaking .
 I really don’t know where you get these brain waves , my boy unless ” Harry pushed the Half Blood Prince’s book deeper into his bag with his foot .
 “ it’s just your mother’s genes coming out in you ! ”
 “ Oh yeah , maybe , ” said Harry , relieved .
 Ernie was looking rather grumpy determined to outshine Harry for once , he had most rashly invented his own potion , which had curdled and formed a kind of purple dumpling at the bottom of his cauldron .
 Malfoy was already packing up , sour faced Slughorn had pronounced his Hiccuping Solution merely “ passable . ”
 The bell rang and both Ernie and Malfoy left at once .
 “ Sir , ” Harry began , but Slughorn immediately glanced over his shoulder when he saw that the room was empty but for himself and Harry , he hurried away as fast as he could .
 “ Professor Professor , don’t you want to taste my po ? ”
 called Harry desperately .
 But Slughorn had gone .
 Disappointed , Harry emptied the cauldron , packed up his things , left the dungeon , and walked slowly back upstairs to the common room .
 Ron and Hermione returned in the late afternoon .
 “ Harry ! ”
 cried Hermione as she climbed through the portrait hole .
 “ Harry , I passed ! ”
 “ Well done ! ”
 he said .
 “ And Ron ? ”
 “ He he just failed , ” whispered Hermione , as Ron came slouching into the room looking most morose .
 “ It was really unlucky , a tiny thing , the examiner just spotted that he’d left half an eyebrow behind .
 How did it go with Slughorn ? ”
 “ No joy , ” said Harry , as Ron joined them .
 “ Bad luck , mate , but you’ll pass next time we can take it together . ”
 “ Yeah , I s’pose , ” said Ron grumpily .
 “ But half an eyebrow Like that matters ! ”
 “ I know , ” said Hermione soothingly , “ it does seem really harsh . ”
 They spent most of their dinner roundly abusing the Apparition examiner , and Ron looked fractionally more cheerful by the time they set off back to the common room , now discussing the continuing problem of Slughorn and the memory .
 “ So , Harry you going to use the Felix Felicis or what ? ”
 Ron demanded .
 “ Yeah , I s’pose I’d better , ” said Harry .
 “ I don’t reckon I’ll need all of it , not twelve hours ’ worth , it can’t take all night .
 I’ll just take a mouthful .
 Two or three hours should do it . ”
 “ It’s a great feeling when you take it , ” said Ron reminiscently .
 “ Like you can’t do anything wrong . ”
 “ What are you talking about ? ”
 said Hermione , laughing .
 “ You’ve never taken any ! ”
 “ Yeah , but I thought I had , didn’t I ? ”
 said Ron , as though explaining the obvious .
 “ Same difference really ” As they had only just seen Slughorn enter the Great Hall and knew that he liked to take time over meals , they lingered for a while in the common room , the plan being that Harry should go to Slughorn ’ s office once the teacher had had time to get back there .
 When the sun had sunk to the level of the treetops in the Forbidden Forest , they decided the moment had come , and after checking carefully that Neville , Dean , and Seamus were all in the common room , sneaked up to the boys ’ dormitory .
 Harry took out the rolled up socks at the bottom of his trunk and extracted the tiny , gleaming bottle .
 “ Well , here goes , ” said Harry , and he raised the little bottle and took a carefully measured gulp .
 “ What does it feel like ? ”
 whispered Hermione .
 Harry did not answer for a moment .
 Then , slowly but surely , an exhilarating sense of infinite opportunity stole through him he felt as though he could have done anything , anything at all and getting the memory from Slughorn seemed suddenly not only possible , but positively easy .
 He got to his feet , smiling , brimming with confidence .
 “ Excellent , ” he said .
 “ Really excellent .
 Right I’m going down to Hagrid’s . ”
 “ What ? ”
 said Ron and Hermione together , looking aghast .
 “ No , Harry you’ve got to go and see Slughorn , remember ? ”
 said Hermione .
 “ No , ” said Harry confidently .
 “ I’m going to Hagrid’s , I’ve got a good feeling about going to Hagrid’s . ”
 “ You’ve got a good feeling about burying a giant spider ? ”
 asked Ron , looking stunned .
 “ Yeah , ” said Harry , pulling his Invisibility Cloak out of his bag .
 “ I feel like it’s the place to be tonight , you know what I mean ? ”
 “ No , ” said Ron and Hermione together , both looking positively alarmed now .
 “ This is Felix Felicis , I suppose ? ”
 said Hermione anxiously , holding up the bottle to the light .
 “ You haven’t got another little bottle full of I don’t know “ Essence of Insanity ? ”
 suggested Ron , as Harry swung his cloak over his shoulders .
 Harry laughed , and Ron and Hermione looked even more alarmed .
 “ Trust me , ” he said .
 “ I know what I’m doing or at least ” he strolled confidently to the door “ Felix does . ”
 He pulled the Invisibility Cloak over his head and set off down the stairs , Ron and Hermione hurrying along behind him .
 At the foot of the stairs , Harry slid through the open door .
 “ What were you doing up there with her ? ”
 shrieked Lavender Brown , staring right through Harry at Ron and Hermione emerging together from the boys ’ dormitories .
 Harry heard Ron spluttering behind him as he darted across the room away from them .
 Getting through the portrait hole was simple as he approached it , Ginny and Dean came through it , and Harry was able to slip between them .
 As he did so , he brushed accidentally against Ginny .
 “ Don’t push me , please , Dean , ” she said , sounding annoyed .
 “ You’re always doing that , I can get through perfectly well on my own . ”
 The portrait swung closed behind Harry , but not before he had heard Dean make an angry retort .
 His feeling of elation increasing , Harry strode off through the castle .
 He did not have to creep along , for he met nobody on his way , but this did not surprise him in the slightest : This evening , he was the luckiest person at Hogwarts .
 Why he knew that going to Hagrid’s was the right thing to do , he had no idea .
 It was as though the potion was illuminating a few steps of the path at a time : He could not see the final destination , he could not see where Slughorn came in , but he knew that he was going the right way to get that memory .
 When he reached the entrance hall he saw that Filch had forgotten to lock the front door .
 Beaming , Harry threw it open and breathed in the smell of clean air and grass for a moment before walking down the steps into the dusk .
 It was when he reached the bottom step that it occurred to him how very pleasant it would be to pass the vegetable patch on his walk to Hagrid’s .
 It was not strictly on the way , but it seemed clear to Harry that this was a whim on which he should act , so he directed his feet immediately toward the vegetable patch , where he was pleased , but not altogether surprised , to find Professor Slughorn in conversation with Professor Sprout .
 Harry lurked behind a low stone wall , feeling at peace with the world and listening to their conversation .
 “ I do thank you for taking the time , Pomona , ” Slughorn was saying courteously , “ most authorities agree that they are at their most efficacious if picked at twilight . ”
 “ Oh , I quite agree , ” said Professor Sprout warmly .
 “ That enough for you ? ”
 “ Plenty , plenty , ” said Slughorn , who , Harry saw , was carrying an armful of leafy plants .
 “ This should allow for a few leaves for each of my third years , and some to spare if anybody over stews them .
 Well , good evening to you , and many thanks again ! ”
 Professor Sprout headed off into the gathering darkness in the direction of her greenhouses , and Slughorn directed his steps to the spot where Harry stood , invisible .
 Seized with an immediate desire to reveal himself , Harry pulled off the cloak with a flourish .
 “ Good evening , Professor . ”
 “ Merlin’s beard , Harry , you made me jump , ” said Slughorn , stopping dead in his tracks and looking wary .
 “ How did you get out of the castle ? ”
 “ I think Filch must’ve forgotten to lock the doors , ” said Harry cheerfully , and was delighted to see Slughorn scowl .
 “ I’ll be reporting that man , he’s more concerned about litter than proper security if you ask me .
 But why are you out here , Harry ? ”
 “ Well , sir , it’s Hagrid , ” said Harry , who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth .
 “ He’s pretty upset .
 But you won’t tell anyone , Professor ?
 I don’t want trouble for him . ”
 Slughorn’s curiosity was evidently aroused .
 “ Well , I can’t promise that , ” he said gruffly .
 “ But I know that Dumbledore trusts Hagrid to the hilt , so I’m sure he can’t be up to anything very dreadful . ”
 “ Well , it’s this giant spider , he’s had it for years .
 It lived in the forest .
 It could talk and everything ” “ I heard rumors there were acromantulas in the forest , ” said Slughorn softly , looking over at the mass of black trees .
 “ It’s true , then ? ”
 “ Yes , ” said Harry .
 “ But this one , Aragog , the first one Hagrid ever got , it died last night .
 He’s devastated .
 He wants company while he buries it and I said I’d go . ”
 “ Touching , touching , ” said Slughorn absentmindedly , his large droopy eyes fixed upon the distant lights of Hagrid ’ s cabin .
 “ But acromantula venom is very valuable If the beast only just died it might not yet have dried out .
 Of course , I wouldn’t want to do anything insensitive if Hagrid is upset but if there was any way to procure some I mean , it’s almost impossible to get venom from an acromantula while it’s alive . ”
 Slughorn seemed to be talking more to himself than Harry now . “
 seems an awful waste not to collect it might get a hundred Galleons a pint .
 To be frank , my salary is not large . ”
 And now Harry saw clearly what was to be done .
 “ Well , ” he said , with a most convincing hesitancy , “ well , if you wanted to come , Professor , Hagrid would probably be really pleased .
 Give Aragog a better send off , you know ” “ Yes , of course , ” said Slughorn , his eyes now gleaming with enthusiasm .
 “ I tell you what , Harry , I’ll meet you down there with a bottle or two .
 We’ll drink the poor beast’s well not health but we’ll send it off in style , anyway , once it’s buried .
 And I’ll change my tie , this one is a little exuberant for the occasion . ”
 He bustled back into the castle , and Harry sped off to Hagrid ’ s , delighted with himself .
 “ Yeh came , ” croaked Hagrid , when he opened the door and saw Harry emerging from the Invisibility Cloak in front of him .
 “ Yeah Ron and Hermione couldn’t , though , ” said Harry .
 “ They’re really sorry . ”
 “ Don ’ don ’ matter He’d ’ ve bin touched yeh’re here , though , Harry . ”
 Hagrid gave a great sob .
 He had made himself a black armband out of what looked like a rag dipped in boot polish , and his eyes were puffy , red , and swollen .
 Harry patted him consolingly on the elbow , which was the highest point of Hagrid he could easily reach .
 “ Where are we burying him ? ”
 he asked .
 “ The forest ? ”
 “ Blimey , no , ” said Hagrid , wiping his streaming eyes on the bottom of his shirt .
 “ The other spiders won ’ let me anywhere near their webs now Aragog’s gone .
 Turns out it was on’y on his orders they didn ’ eat me !
 Can yeh believe that , Harry ? ”
 The honest answer was “ yes ” Harry recalled with painful ease the scene when he and Ron had come face to face with the acromantulas : They had been quite clear that Aragog was the only thing that stopped them from eating Hagrid .
 “ Never bin an area o ’ the forest I couldn ’ go before ! ”
 said Hagrid , shaking his head .
 “ It wasn ’ easy , gettin ’ Aragog’s body out o ’ there , I can tell yeh they usually eat their dead , see .
 But I wanted ter give ’ im a nice burial a proper send off ” He broke into sobs again and Harry resumed the patting of his elbow , saying as he did so ( for the potion seemed to indicate that it was the right thing to do ) , “ Professor Slughorn met me coming down here , Hagrid . ”
 “ Not in trouble , are yeh ? ”
 said Hagrid , looking up , alarmed .
 “ Yeh shouldn ’ be outta the castle in the evenin ’ , I know it , it’s my fault ” “ No , no , when he heard what I was doing he said he’d like to come and pay his last respects to Aragog too , ” said Harry .
 “ He’s gone to change into something more suitable , I think and he said he’d bring some bottles so we can drink to Aragog’s memory .
 “ Did he ? ”
 said Hagrid , looking both astonished and touched .
 “ Tha’s tha’s righ ’ nice of him , that is , an ’ not turnin ’ yeh in either .
 I’ve never really had a lot ter do with Horace Slughorn before .
 Cornin ’ ter see old Aragog off , though , eh ?
 Well he ’ d’ve liked that , Aragog would . ”
 Harry thought privately that what Aragog would have liked most about Slughorn was the ample amount of edible flesh he provided , but he merely moved to the rear window of Hagrid ’ s hut , where he saw the rather horrible sight of the enormous dead spider lying on its back outside , its legs curled and tangled .
 “ Are we going to bury him here , Hagrid , in your garden ? ”
 “ Jus ’ beyond the pumpkin patch , I thought , ” said Hagrid in a choked voice .
 “ I’ve already dug the yeh know grave .
 Jus ’ thought we’d say a few nice things over him happy memories , yeh know ” His voice quivered and broke .
 There was a knock on the door , and he turned to answer it , blowing his nose on his great spotted handkerchief as he did so .
 Slughorn hurried over the threshold , several bottles in his arms , and wearing a somber black cravat .
 “ Hagrid , ” he said , in a deep , grave voice .
 “ So very sorry to hear of your loss . ”
 “ Tha’s very nice of yeh , ” said Hagrid .
 “ Thanks a lot .
 An ’ thanks fer not givin ’ Harry detention neither . ”
 “ Wouldn’t have dreamed of it , ” said Slughorn .
 “ Sad night , sad night Where is the poor creature ? ”
 “ Out here , ” said Hagrid in a shaking voice .
 “ Shall we shall we do it , then ? ”
 The three of them stepped out into the back garden .
 The moon was glistening palely through the trees now , and its rays mingled with the light spilling from Hagrid’s window to illuminate Aragog’s body lying on the edge of a massive pit beside a ten foot high mound of freshly dug earth .
 “ Magnificent , ” said Slughorn , approaching the spider’s head , where eight milky eyes stared blankly at the sky and two huge , curved pincers shone , motionless , in the moonlight .
 Harry thought he heard the tinkle of bottles as Slughorn bent over the pincers , apparently examining the enormous hairy head .
 “ It’s not ev’ryone appreciates how beau’iful they are , ” said Hagrid to Slughorn ’ s back , tears leaking from the corners of his crinkled eyes .
 “ I didn ’ know yeh were int’rested in creatures like Aragog , Horace . ”
 “ Interested ?
 My dear Hagrid , I revere them , ” said Slughorn , stepping back from the body .
 Harry saw the glint of a bottle disappear beneath his cloak , though Hagrid , mopping his eyes once more , noticed nothing .
 “ Now shall we proceed to the burial ? ”
 Hagrid nodded and moved forward .
 He heaved the gigantic spider into his arms and , with an enormous grunt , rolled it into the dark pit .
 It hit the bottom with a rather horrible , crunchy thud .
 Hagrid started to cry again .
 “ Of course , it’s difficult for you , who knew him best , ” said Slughorn , who like Harry could reach no higher than Hagrid’s elbow , but patted it all the same .
 “ Why don’t I say a few words ? ”
 He must have got a lot of good quality venom from Aragog , Harry thought , for Slughorn wore a satisfied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit and said , in a slow , impressive voice , “ Farewell , Aragog , king of arachnids , whose long and faithful friendship those who knew you won’t forget !
 Though your body will decay , your spirit lingers on in the quiet , web spun places of your forest home .
 May your many eyed descendants ever flourish and your human friends find solace for the loss they have sustained . ”
 “ Tha ’ was tha ’ was beau’iful ! ”
 howled Hagrid , and he collapsed onto the compost heap , crying harder than ever .
 “ There , there , ” said Slughorn , waving his wand so that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell , with a muffled sort of crash , onto the dead spider , forming a smooth mound .
 “ Let’s get inside and have a drink .
 Get on his other side , Harry .
 That’s it .
 Up you come , Hagrid Well done ” They deposited Hagrid in a chair at the table .
 Fang , who had been skulking in his basket during the burial , now came padding softly across to them and put his heavy head into Harry’s lap as usual .
 Slughorn uncorked one of the bottles of wine he had brought .
 “ I have had it all tested for poison , ” he assured Harry , pouring most of the first bottle into one of Hagrid ’ s bucket sized mugs and handing it to Hagrid .
 “ Had a house elf taste every bottle after what happened to your poor friend Rupert . ”
 Harry saw , in his mind’s eye , the expression on Hermione’s face if she ever heard about this abuse of house elves , and decided never to mention it to her .
 “ One for Harry ” said Slughorn , dividing a second bottle between two mugs , “ and one for me .
 Well ” he raised his mug high “ to Aragog . ”
 “ Aragog , ” said Harry and Hagrid together .
 Both Slughorn and Hagrid drank deeply .
 Harry , however , with the way ahead illuminated for him by Felix Felicis , knew that he must not drink , so he merely pretended to take a gulp and then set the mug back on the table before him .
 “ I had him from an egg , yeh know , ” said Hagrid morosely .
 “ Tiny little thing he was when he hatched .
 Bout the size of a Pekingese . ”
 “ Sweet , ” said Slughorn .
 “ Used ter keep him in a cupboard up at the school until well ” Hagrid ’ s face darkened and Harry knew why : Tom Riddle had contrived to have Hagrid thrown out of school , blamed for opening the Chamber of Secrets .
 Slughorn , however , did not seem to be listening he was looking up at the ceiling , from which a number of brass pots hung , and also a long , silky skein of bright white hair .
 “ That’s never unicorn hair , Hagrid ? ”
 “ Oh , yeah , ” said Hagrid indifferently .
 “ Gets pulled out of their tails , they catch it on branches an ’ stuff in the forest , yeh know ” “ But my dear chap , do you know how much that’s worth ? ”
 “ I use it fer bindin ’ on bandages an ’ stuff if a creature gets injured , ” said Hagrid , shrugging .
 “ It’s dead useful very strong , see . ”
 Slughorn took another deep draught from his mug , his eyes moving carefully around the cabin now , looking , Harry knew , for more treasures that he might be able to convert into a plentiful supply of oak matured mead , crystalized pineapple , and velvet smoking jackets .
 He refilled Hagrid’s mug and his own , and questioned him about the creatures that lived in the forest these days and how Hagrid was able to look after them all .
 Hagrid , becoming expansive under the influence of the drink and Slughorn ’ s flattering interest , stopped mopping his eyes and entered happily into a long explanation of bowtruckle husbandry .
 The Felix Felicis gave Harry a little nudge at this point , and he noticed that the supply of drink that Slughorn had brought was running out fast .
 Harry had not yet managed to bring off the Refilling Charm without saying the incantation aloud , but the idea that he might not be able to do it tonight was laughable : Indeed , Harry grinned to himself as , unnoticed by either Hagrid or Slughorn ( now swapping tales of the illegal trade in dragon eggs ) he pointed his wand under the table at the emptying bottles and they immediately began to refill .
 After an hour or so , Hagrid and Slughorn began making extravagant toasts : to Hogwarts , to Dumbledore , to elf made wine , and to “ Harry Potter ! ”
 bellowed Hagrid , slopping some of his fourteenth bucket of wine down his chin as he drained it .
 “ Yes , indeed , ” cried Slughorn a little thickly , “ Parry Otter , the Chosen Boy Who well something of that sort , ” he mumbled , and drained his mug too .
 Not long after this , Hagrid became tearful again and pressed the whole unicorn tail upon Slughorn , who pocketed it with cries of , “ To friendship !
 To generosity !
 To ten Galleons a hair ! ”
 And for a while after that , Hagrid and Slughorn were sitting side by side , arms around each other , singing a slow sad song about a dying wizard called Odo .
 “ Aaargh , the good die young , ” muttered Hagrid , slumping low onto the table , a little cross eyed , while Slughorn continued to warble the refrain .
 “ Me dad was no age ter go nor were yer mum an ’ dad , Harry ” Great fat tears oozed out of the corners of Hagrid ’ s crinkled eyes again he grasped Harry’s arm and shook it .
 “ Bes ’ wiz and witchard o ’ their age I never knew terrible thing terrible thing ” And Odo the hero , they bore him back home To the place that he’d known as a lad , sang Slughorn plaintively .
 They laid him to rest with his hat inside out And his wand snapped in two , which was sad . “
 terrible , ” Hagrid grunted , and his great shaggy head rolled sideways onto his arms and he fell asleep , snoring deeply .
 “ Sorry , ” said Slughorn with a hiccup .
 “ Can’t carry a tune to save my life . ”
 “ Hagrid wasn’t talking about your singing , ” said Harry quietly .
 “ He was talking about my mum and dad dying . ”
 “ Oh , ” said Slughorn , repressing a large belch .
 “ Oh dear .
 Yes , that was was terrible indeed .
 Terrible terrible ” He looked quite at a loss for what to say , and resorted to refilling their mugs .
 “ I don’t don’t suppose you remember it , Harry ? ”
 he asked awkwardly .
 “ No well , I was only one when they died , ” said Harry , his eyes on the flame of the candle flickering in Hagrid’s heavy snores .
 “ But I’ve found out pretty much what happened since .
 My dad died first .
 Did you know that ? ”
 “ I I didn’t , ” said Slughorn in a hushed voice .
 “ Yeah Voldemort murdered him and then stepped over his body toward my mum , ” said Harry .
 Slughorn gave a great shudder , but he did not seem able to tear his horrified gaze away from Harry’s face .
 “ He told her to get out of the way , ” said Harry remorselessly .
 “ He told me she needn’t have died .
 He only wanted me .
 She could have run . ”
 “ Oh dear , ” breathed Slughorn .
 “ She could have she needn’t That’s awful . ”
 “ It is , isn’t it ? ”
 said Harry , in a voice barely more than a whisper .
 “ But she didn’t move .
 Dad was already dead , but she didn’t want me to go too .
 She tried to plead with Voldemort but he just laughed . ”
 “ That’s enough ! ”
 said Slughorn suddenly , raising a shaking hand .
 “ Really , my dear boy , enough I’m an old man I don’t need to hear I don’t want to hear “ I forgot , ” lied Harry , Felix Felicis leading him on .
 “ You liked her , didn’t you ? ”
 “ Liked her ? ”
 said Slughorn , his eyes brimming with tears once more .
 “ I don’t imagine anyone who met her wouldn’t have liked her .
 Very brave Very funny It was the most horrible thing . ”
 “ But you won’t help her son , ” said Harry .
 “ She gave me her life , but you won’t give me a memory . ”
 Hagrid’s rumbling snores filled the cabin .
 Harry looked steadily into Slughorn ’ s tear filled eyes .
 The Potions master seemed unable to look away .
 “ Don’t say that , ” he whispered .
 “ It isn’t a question If it were to help you , of course but no purpose can be served ” “ It can , ” said Harry clearly .
 “ Dumbledore needs information .
 I need information . ”
 He knew he was safe : Felix was telling him that Slughorn would remember nothing of this in the morning .
 Looking Slughorn straight in the eye , Harry leaned forward a little .
 “ I am the Chosen One .
 I have to kill him .
 I need that memory . ”
 Slughorn turned paler than ever his shiny forehead gleamed with sweat .
 “ You are the Chosen One ? ”
 “ Of course I am , ” said Harry calmly .
 “ But then my dear boy you’re asking a great deal you’re asking me , in fact , to aid you in your attempt to destroy ” “ You don’t want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily Evans ? ”
 “ Harry , Harry , of course I do , but ” “ You’re scared he’ll find out you helped me ? ”
 Slughorn said nothing he looked terrified .
 “ Be brave like my mother , Professor . ”
 Slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his shaking fingers to his mouth he looked for a moment like an enormously overgrown baby .
 “ I am not proud ” he whispered through his fingers .
 “ I am ashamed of what of what that memory shows .
 I think I may have done great damage that day . ”
 “ You’d cancel out anything you did by giving me the memory , ” said Harry .
 “ It would be a very brave and noble thing to do . ”
 Hagrid twitched in his sleep and snored on .
 Slughorn and Harry stared at each other over the guttering candle .
 There was a long , long silence , but Felix Felicis told Harry not to break it , to wait .
 Then , very slowly , Slughorn put his hand in his pocket and pulled out his wand .
 He put his other hand inside his cloak and took out a small , empty bottle .
 Still looking into Harry’s eyes , Slughorn touched the tip of his wand to his temple and withdrew it , so that a long , silver thread of memory came away too , clinging to the wand tip .
 Longer and longer the memory stretched until it broke and swung , silvery bright , from the wand .
 Slughorn lowered it into the bottle where it coiled , then spread , swirling like gas .
 He corked the bottle with a trembling hand and then passed it across the table to Harry .
 “ Thank you very much , Professor . ”
 “ You’re a good boy , ” said Professor Slughorn , tears trickling down his fat cheeks into his walrus mustache .
 “ And you’ve got her eyes .
 Just don’t think too badly of me once you’ve seen it . ”
 And he too put his head on his arms , gave a deep sigh , and fell asleep .
 HORCRUXES Harry could feel the Felix Felicis wearing off as he crept back into the castle .
 The front door had remained unlocked for him , but on the third floor he met Peeves and only narrowly avoided detection by diving sideways through one of his shortcuts .
 By the time he got up to the portrait of the Fat Lady and pulled off his Invisibility Cloak , he was not surprised to find her in a most unhelpful mood .
 “ What sort of time do you call this ? ”
 “ I’m really sorry I had to go out for something important ” “ Well , the password changed at midnight , so you’ll just have to sleep in the corridor , won’t you ? ”
 “ You’re joking ! ”
 said Harry .
 “ Why did it have to change at midnight ? ”
 “ That’s the way it is , ” said the Fat Lady .
 “ If you’re angry , go and take it up with the headmaster , he’s the one who’s tightened security . ”
 “ Fantastic , ” said Harry bitterly , looking around at the hard floor .
 “ Really brilliant .
 Yeah , I would go and take it up with Dumbledore if he was here , because he’s the one who wanted me to ” “ He is here , ” said a voice behind Harry .
 “ Professor Dumbledore returned to the school an hour ago . ”
 Nearly Headless Nick was gliding toward Harry , his head wobbling as usual upon his ruff .
 “ I had it from the Bloody Baron , who saw him arrive , ” said Nick .
 “ He appeared , according to the Baron , to be in good spirits , though a little tired , of course . ”
 “ Where is he ? ”
 said Harry , his heart leaping .
 “ Oh , groaning and clanking up on the Astronomy Tower , it’s a favorite pastime of his ” “ Not the Bloody Baron Dumbledore ! ”
 “ Oh in his office , ” said Nick .
 “ I believe , from what the Baron said , that he had business to attend to before turning in ” “ Yeah , he has , ” said Harry , excitement blazing in his chest at the prospect of telling Dumbledore he had secured the memory .
 He wheeled about and sprinted off again , ignoring the Fat Lady who was calling after him .
 “ Come back !
 All right , I lied !
 I was annoyed you woke me up !
 The password’s still ‘ tapeworm ’ ! ”
 But Harry was already hurtling back along the corridor and within minutes , he was saying “ toffee eclairs ” to Dumbledore’s gargoyle , which leapt aside , permitting Harry entrance onto the spiral staircase .
 “ Enter , ” said Dumbledore when Harry knocked .
 He sounded exhausted .
 Harry pushed open the door .
 There was Dumbledore’s office , looking the same as ever , but with black , star strewn skies beyond the windows .
 “ Good gracious , Harry , ” said Dumbledore in surprise .
 “ To what do I owe this very late pleasure ? ”
 “ Sir I’ve got it .
 I’ve got the memory from Slughorn . ”
 Harry pulled out the tiny glass bottle and showed it to Dumbledore .
 For a moment or two , the headmaster looked stunned .
 Then his face split in a wide smile .
 “ Harry , this is spectacular news !
 Very well done indeed !
 I knew you could do it ! ”
 All thought of the lateness of the hour apparently forgotten , he hurried around his desk , took the bottle with Slughorn’s memory in his uninjured hand , and strode over to the cabinet where he kept the Pensieve .
 “ And now , ” said Dumbledore , placing the stone basin upon his desk and emptying the contents of the bottle into it .
 “ Now , at last , we shall see .
 Harry , quickly ” Harry bowed obediently over the Pensieve and felt his feet leave the office floor .
 Once again he fell through darkness and landed in Horace Slughorn’s office many years before .
 There was the much younger Slughorn , with his thick , shiny , straw colored hair and his gingery blond mustache , sitting again in the comfortable winged armchair in his office , his feet resting upon a velvet pouffe , a small glass of wine in one hand , the other rummaging in a box of crystalized pineapple .
 And there were the half dozen teenage boys sitting around Slughorn with Tom Riddle in the midst of them , Marvolo’s gold and black ring gleaming on his finger .
 Dumbledore landed beside Harry just as Riddle asked , “ Sir , is it true that Professor Merrythought is retiring ? ”
 “ Tom , Tom , if I knew I couldn’t tell you , ” said Slughorn , wagging his finger reprovingly at Riddle , though winking at the same time .
 “ I must say , I’d like to know where you get your information , boy , more knowledgeable than half the staff , you are . ”
 Riddle smiled the other boys laughed and cast him admiring looks .
 “ What with your uncanny ability to know things you shouldn’t , and your careful flattery of the people who matter thank you for the pineapple , by the way , you’re quite right , it is my favorite ” Several of the boys tittered again .
 “ I confidently expect you to rise to Minister of Magic within twenty years .
 Fifteen , if you keep sending me pineapple , I have excellent contacts at the Ministry . ”
 Tom Riddle merely smiled as the others laughed again .
 Harry noticed that he was by no means the eldest of the group of boys , but that they all seemed to look to him as their leader .
 “ I don’t know that politics would suit me , sir , ” he said when the laughter had died away .
 “ I don’t have the right kind of background , for one thing . ”
 A couple of the boys around him smirked at each other .
 Harry was sure they were enjoying a private joke , undoubtedly about what they knew , or suspected , regarding their gang leader’s famous ancestor .
 “ Nonsense , ” said Slughorn briskly , “ couldn’t be plainer you come from decent Wizarding stock , abilities like yours .
 No , you’ll go far , Tom , I’ve never been wrong about a student yet . ”
 The small golden clock standing upon Slughorn ’ s desk chimed eleven o’clock behind him and he looked around .
 “ Good gracious , is it that time already ?
 You’d better get going , boys , or we’ll all be in trouble .
 Lestrange , I want your essay by tomorrow or it’s detention .
 Same goes for you , Avery . ”
 One by one , the boys filed out of the room .
 Slughorn heaved himself out of his armchair and carried his empty glass over to his desk .
 A movement behind him made him look around Riddle was still standing there .
 “ Look sharp , Tom , you don’t want to be caught out of bed out of hours , and you a prefect ” “ Sir , I wanted to ask you something . ”
 “ Ask away , then , m’boy , ask away . ”
 “ Sir , I wondered what you know about about Horcruxes ? ”
 Slughorn stared at him , his thick fingers absentmindedly caressing the stem of his wine glass .
 “ Project for Defense Against the Dark Arts , is it ? ”
 But Harry could tell that Slughorn knew perfectly well that this was not schoolwork .
 “ Not exactly , sir , ” said Riddle .
 “ I came across the term while reading and I didn’t fully understand it . ”
 “ No well you’d be hard pushed to find a book at Hogwarts that’ll give you details on Horcruxes , Tom , that’s very Dark stuff , very Dark indeed , ” said Slughorn .
 “ But you obviously know all about them , sir ?
 I mean , a wizard like you sorry , I mean , if you can’t tell me , obviously I just knew if anyone could tell me , you could so I just thought I’d ask ” It was very well done , thought Harry , the hesitancy , the casual tone , the careful flattery , none of it overdone .
 He , Harry , had had too much experience of trying to wheedle information out of reluctant people not to recognize a master at work .
 He could tell that Riddle wanted the information very , very much perhaps had been working toward this moment for weeks .
 “ Well , ” said Slughorn , not looking at Riddle , but fiddling with the ribbon on top of his box of crystalized pineapple , “ well , it can’t hurt to give you an overview , of course .
 Just so that you understand the term .
 A Horcrux is the word used for an object in which a person has concealed part of their soul . ”
 “ I don’t quite understand how that works , though , sir , ” said Riddle .
 His voice was carefully controlled , but Harry could sense his excitement .
 “ Well , you split your soul , you see , ” said Slughorn , “ and hide part of it in an object outside the body .
 Then , even if one’s body is attacked or destroyed , one cannot die , for part of the soul remains earthbound and undamaged .
 But of course , existence in such a form ” Slughorn ’ s face crumpled and Harry found himself remembering words he had heard nearly two years before : “ I was ripped from my body , I was less than spirit , less than the meanest ghost but still , I was alive . ” “
 few would want it , Tom , very few .
 Death would be preferable . ”
 But Riddle’s hunger was now apparent his expression was greedy , he could no longer hide his longing .
 “ How do you split your soul ? ”
 “ Well , ” said Slughorn uncomfortably , “ you must understand that the soul is supposed to remain intact and whole .
 Splitting it is an act of violation , it is against nature . ”
 “ But how do you do it ? ”
 “ By an act of evil the supreme act of evil .
 By committing murder .
 Killing rips the soul apart .
 The wizard intent upon creating a Horcrux would use the damage to his advantage : He would encase the torn portion ” “ Encase ?
 But how ? ”
 “ There is a spell , do not ask me , I don’t know ! ”
 said Slughorn , shaking his head like an old elephant bothered by mosquitoes .
 “ Do I look as though I have tried it do I look like a killer ? ”
 “ No , sir , of course not , ” said Riddle quickly .
 “ I’m sorry I didn’t mean to offend ” “ Not at all , not at all , not offended , ” said Slughorn gruffly .
 “ It’s natural to feel some curiosity about these things .
 Wizards of a certain caliber have always been drawn to that aspect of magic . ”
 “ Yes , sir , ” said Riddle .
 “ What I don’t understand , though just out of curiosity I mean , would one Horcrux be much use ?
 Can you only split your soul once ?
 Wouldn’t it be better , make you stronger , to have your soul in more pieces , I mean , for instance , isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number , wouldn’t seven ? ”
 “ Merlin’s beard , Tom ! ”
 yelped Slughorn .
 “ Seven !
 Isn’t it bad enough to think of killing one person ?
 And in any case bad enough to divide the soul but to rip it into seven pieces ” Slughorn looked deeply troubled now : He was gazing at Riddle as though he had never seen him plainly before , and Harry could tell that he was regretting entering into the conversation at all .
 “ Of course , ” he muttered , “ this is all hypothetical , what we’re discussing , isn’t it ?
 All academic ” “ Yes , sir , of course , ” said Riddle quickly .
 “ But all the same , Tom keep it quiet , what I’ve told that’s to say , what we’ve discussed .
 People wouldn’t like to think we’ve been chatting about Horcruxes .
 It’s a banned subject at Hogwarts , you know .
 Dumbledore’s particularly fierce about it . ”
 “ I won’t say a word , sir , ” said Riddle , and he left , but not before Harry had glimpsed his face , which was full of that same wild happiness it had worn when he had first found out that he was a wizard , the sort of happiness that did not enhance his handsome features , but made them , somehow , less human .
 “ Thank you , Harry , ” said Dumbledore quietly .
 “ Let us go . ” ’
 When Harry landed back on the office floor Dumbledore was already sitting down behind his desk .
 Harry sat too and waited for Dumbledore to speak .
 “ I have been hoping for this piece of evidence for a very long time , ” said Dumbledore at last .
 “ It confirms the theory on which I have been working , it tells me that I am right , and also how very far there is still to go . ”
 Harry suddenly noticed that every single one of the old headmasters and headmistresses in the portraits around the walls was awake and listening in on their conversation .
 A corpulent , red nosed wizard had actually taken out an ear trumpet .
 “ Well , Harry , ” said Dumbledore , “ I am sure you understood the significance of what we just heard .
 At the same age as you are now , give or take a few months , Tom Riddle was doing all he could to find out how to make himself immortal . ”
 “ You think he succeeded then , sir ? ”
 asked Harry .
 “ He made a Horcrux ?
 And that’s why he didn’t die when he attacked me ?
 He had a Horcrux hidden somewhere ?
 A bit of his soul was safe ? ”
 “ A bit or more , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ You heard Voldemort : What he particularly wanted from Horace was an opinion on what would happen to the wizard who created more than one Horcrux , what would happen to the wizard so determined to evade death that he would be prepared to murder many times , rip his soul repeatedly , so as to store it in many , separately concealed Horcruxes .
 No book would have given him that information .
 As far as I know as far , I am sure , as Voldemort knew no wizard had ever done more than tear his soul in two . ”
 Dumbledore paused for a moment , marshaling his thoughts , and then said , “ Four years ago , I received what I considered certain proof that Voldemort had split his soul . ”
 “ Where ? ”
 asked Harry “ How ? ”
 “ You handed it to me , Harry , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ The diary , Riddle’s diary , the one giving instructions on how to reopen the Chamber of Secrets . ”
 “ I don’t understand , sir , ” said Harry .
 “ Well , although I did not see the Riddle who came out of the diary , what you described to me was a phenomenon I had never witnessed .
 A mere memory starting to act and think for itself ?
 A mere memory , sapping the life out of the girl into whose hands it had fallen ?
 No , something much more sinister had lived inside that book .
 a fragment of soul , I was almost sure of it .
 The diary had been a Horcrux .
 But this raised as many questions as it answered .
 “ What intrigued and alarmed me most was that that diary had been intended as a weapon as much as a safeguard . ”
 “ I still don’t understand , ” said Harry .
 “ Well , it worked as a Horcrux is supposed to work in other words , the fragment of soul concealed inside it was kept safe and had undoubtedly played its part in preventing the death of its owner .
 But there could be no doubt that Riddle really wanted that diary read , wanted the piece of his soul to inhabit or possess somebody else , so that Slytherin’s monster would be unleashed again . ”
 “ Well , he didn’t want his hard work to be wasted , ” said Harry .
 “ He wanted people to know he was Slytherin’s heir , because he couldn’t take credit at the time . ”
 “ Quite correct , ” said Dumbledore , nodding .
 “ But don’t you see , Harry , that if he intended the diary to be passed to , or planted on , some future Hogwarts student , he was being remarkably blase about that precious fragment of his soul concealed within it .
 The point of a Horcrux is , as Professor Slughorn explained , to keep part of the self hidden and safe , not to fling it into somebody else’s path and run the risk that they might destroy it as indeed happened : That particular fragment of soul is no more you saw to that .
 “ The careless way in which Voldemort regarded this Horcrux seemed most ominous to me .
 It suggested that he must have made or been planning to make more Horcruxes , so that the loss of his first would not be so detrimental .
 I did not wish to believe it , but nothing else seemed to make sense .
 “ Then you told me , two years later , that on the night that Voldemort returned to his body , he made a most illuminating and alarming statement to his Death Eaters .
 who have gone further than anybody along the path that leads to immortality . ’
 That was what you told me he said .
 ‘ Further than anybody , ’ And I thought I knew what that meant , though the Death Eaters did not .
 He was referring to his Horcruxes , Horcruxes in the plural , Harry , which I do not believe any other wizard has ever had .
 Yet it fitted : Lord Voldemort has seemed to grow less human with the passing years , and the transformation he has undergone seemed to me to be only explicable if his soul was mutilated beyond the realms of what we might call ‘ usual evil ’ “ So he’s made himself impossible to kill by murdering other people ? ”
 said Harry .
 “ Why couldn’t he make a Sorcerer’s Stone , or steal one , if he was so interested in immortality ? ”
 “ Well , we know that he tried to do just that , five years ago , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ But there are several reasons why , I think , a Sorcerer’s Stone would appeal less than Horcruxes to Lord Voldemort .
 “ While the Elixir of Life does indeed extend life , it must be drunk regularly , for all eternity , if the drinker is to maintain their immortality .
 Therefore , Voldemort would be entirely dependent on the Elixir , and if it ran out , or was contaminated , or if the Stone was stolen , he would die just like any other man .
 Voldemort likes to operate alone , remember .
 I believe that he would have found the thought of being dependent , even on the Elixir , intolerable .
 Of course he was prepared to drink it if it would take him out of the horrible part life to which he was condemned after attacking you , but only to regain a body .
 Thereafter , I am convinced , he intended to continue to rely on his Horcruxes : He would need nothing more , if only he could regain a human form .
 He was already immortal , you see or as close to immortal as any man can be .
 “ But now , Harry , armed with this information , the crucial memory you have succeeded in procuring for us , we are closer to the secret of finishing Lord Voldemort than anyone has ever been before .
 You heard him , Harry : ‘ Wouldn’t it be better , make you stronger , to have your soul in more pieces isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number ’ Isn’t seven the most powerfully magical number .
 Yes , I think the idea of a seven part soul would greatly appeal to Lord Voldemort . ”
 “ He made seven Horcruxes ? ”
 said Harry , horror struck , while several of the portraits on the walls made similar noises of shock and outrage .
 “ But they could be anywhere in the world hidden buried or invisible ” “ I am glad to see you appreciate the magnitude of the problem , ” said Dumbledore calmly .
 “ But firstly , no , Harry , not seven Horcruxes : six .
 The seventh part of his soul , however maimed , resides inside his regenerated body .
 That was the part of him that lived a spectral existence for so many years during his exile without that , he has no self at all .
 That seventh piece of soul will be the last that anybody wishing to kill Voldemort must attack the piece that lives in his body . ”
 “ But the six Horcruxes , then , ” said Harry , a little desperately , “ how are we supposed to find them ? ”
 “ You are forgetting you have already destroyed one of them .
 And I have destroyed another . ”
 “ You have ? ”
 said Harry eagerly .
 “ Yes indeed , ” said Dumbledore , and he raised his blackened , burned looking hand .
 “ The ring , Harry .
 Marvolo’s ring .
 And a terrible curse there was upon it too .
 Had it not been forgive me the lack of seemly modesty for my own prodigious skill , and for Professor Snape’s timely action when I returned to Hogwarts , desperately injured , I might not have lived to tell the tale .
 However , a withered hand does not seem an unreasonable exchange for a seventh of Voldemort’s soul .
 The ring is no longer a Horcrux . ”
 “ But how did you find it ? ”
 “ Well , as you now know , for many years I have made it my business to discover as much as I can about Voldemort’s past life .
 I have traveled widely , visiting those places he once knew .
 I stumbled across the ring hidden in the ruin of the Gaunts ’ house .
 It seems that once Voldemort had succeeded in sealing a piece of his soul inside it , he did not want to wear it anymore .
 He hid it , protected by many powerful enchantments , in the shack where his ancestors had once lived ( Morfin having been carted off to Azkaban , of course ) , never guessing that I might one day take the trouble to visit the ruin , or that I might be keeping an eye open for traces of magical concealment .
 “ However , we should not congratulate ourselves too heartily .
 You destroyed the diary and I the ring , but if we are right in our theory of a seven part soul , four Horcruxes remain . ”
 “ And they could be anything ? ”
 said Harry .
 “ They could be old tin cans or , I dunno , empty potion bottles . ”
 “ You are thinking of Portkeys , Harry , which must be ordinary objects , easy to overlook .
 But would Lord Voldemort use tin cans or old potion bottles to guard his own precious soul ?
 You are forgetting what I have showed you .
 Lord Voldemort liked to collect trophies , and he preferred objects with a powerful magical history .
 His pride , his belief in his own superiority , his determination to carve for himself a startling place in magical history these things suggest to me that Voldemort would have chosen his Horcruxes with some care , favoring objects worthy of the honor . ”
 “ The diary wasn’t that special . ”
 “ The diary , as you have said yourself , was proof that he was the Heir of Slytherin I am sure that Voldemort considered it of stupendous importance . ”
 “ So , the other Horcruxes ? ”
 said Harry .
 “ Do you think you know what they are , sir ? ”
 “ I can only guess , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ For the reasons I have already given , I believe that Lord Voldemort would prefer objects that , in themselves , have a certain grandeur .
 I have therefore trawled back through Voldemort’s past to see if I can find evidence that such artifacts have disappeared around him . ”
 “ The locket ! ”
 said Harry loudly .
 “ Hufflepuff’s cup ! ”
 “ Yes , ” said Dumbledore , smiling , “ I would be prepared to bet perhaps not my other hand but a couple of fingers , that they became Horcruxes three and four .
 The remaining two , assuming again that he created a total of six , are more of a problem , but I will hazard a guess that , having secured objects from Hufflepuff and Slytherin , he set out to track down objects owned by Gryffindor or Ravenclaw .
 Four objects from the four founders would , I am sure , have exerted a powerful pull over Voldemort’s imagination .
 I cannot answer for whether he ever managed to find anything of Ravenclaw’s .
 I am confident , however , that the only known relic of Gryffindor remains safe . ”
 Dumbledore pointed his blackened fingers to the wall behind him , where a ruby encrusted sword reposed within a glass case .
 “ Do you think that’s why he really wanted to come back to Hogwarts , sir ? ”
 said Harry .
 “ To try and find something from one of the other founders ? ”
 “ My thoughts precisely , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ But unfortunately , that does not advance us much further , for he was turned away , or so I believe , without the chance to search the school .
 I am forced to conclude that he never fulfilled his ambition of collecting four founders ’ objects .
 He definitely had two he may have found three that is the best we can do for now . ”
 “ Even if he got something of Ravenclaw’s or of Gryffindor’s , that leaves a sixth Horcrux , ” said Harry , counting on his fingers .
 “ Unless he got both ? ”
 “ I don’t think so , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ I think I know what the sixth Horcrux is .
 I wonder what you will say when I confess that I have been curious for a while about the behavior of the snake , Nagini ? ”
 “ The snake ? ”
 said Harry , startled .
 “ You can use animals as Horcruxes ? ”
 “ Well , it is inadvisable to do so , ” said Dumbledore , “ because to confide a part of your soul to something that can think and move for itself is obviously a very risky business .
 However , if my calculations are correct , Voldemort was still at least one Horcrux short of his goal of six when he entered your parents ’ house with the intention of killing you .
 “ He seems to have reserved the process of making Horcruxes for particularly significant deaths .
 You would certainly have been that .
 He believed that in killing you , he was destroying the danger the prophecy had outlined .
 He believed he was making himself invincible .
 I am sure that he was intending to make his final Horcrux with your death .
 “ As we know , he failed .
 After an interval of some years , however , he used Nagini to kill an old Muggle man , and it might then have occurred to him to turn her into his last Horcrux .
 She underlines the Slytherin connection , which enhances Lord Voldemort’s mystique I think he is perhaps as fond of her as he can be of anything he certainly likes to keep her close , and he seems to have an unusual amount of control over her , even for a Parselmouth . ”
 “ So , ” said Harry , “ the diary’s gone , the ring’s gone .
 The cup , the locket , and the snake are still intact , and you think there might be a Horcrux that was once Ravenclaw’s or Gryffindor’s ? ”
 “ An admirably succinct and accurate summary , yes , ” said Dumbledore , bowing his head .
 “ So are you still looking for them , sir ?
 Is that where you’ve been going when you’ve been leaving the school ? ”
 “ Correct , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ I have been looking for a very long time .
 I think perhaps I may be close to finding another one .
 There are hopeful signs . ”
 “ And if you do , ” said Harry quickly , “ can I come with you and help get rid of it ? ”
 Dumbledore looked at Harry very intently for a moment before saying , “ Yes , I think so . ”
 “ I can ? ”
 said Harry , thoroughly taken aback .
 “ Oh yes , ” said Dumbledore , smiling slightly .
 “ I think you have earned that right . ”
 Harry felt his heart lift .
 It was very good not to hear words of caution and protection for once .
 The headmasters and headmistresses around the walls seemed less impressed by Dumbledore’s decision Harry saw a few of them shaking their heads and Phineas Nigellus actually snorted .
 “ Does Voldemort know when a Horcrux is destroyed , sir ?
 Can he feel it ? ”
 Harry asked , ignoring the portraits .
 “ A very interesting question , Harry .
 I believe not .
 I believe that Voldemort is now so immersed in evil , and these crucial parts of himself have been detached for so long , he does not feel as we do .
 Perhaps , at the point of death , he might be aware of his loss but he was not aware , for instance , that the diary had been destroyed until he forced the truth out of Lucius Malfoy .
 When Voldemort discovered that the diary had been mutilated and robbed of all its powers , I am told that his anger was terrible to behold . ”
 “ But I thought he meant Lucius Malfoy to smuggle it into Hogwarts ? ”
 “ Yes , he did , years ago , when he was sure he would be able to create more Horcruxes , but still Lucius was supposed to wait for Voldemort’s say so , and he never received it , for Voldemort vanished shortly after giving him the diary .
 “ No doubt he thought that Lucius would not dare do anything with the Horcrux other than guard it carefully , but he was counting too much upon Lucius’s fear of a master who had been gone for years and whom Lucius believed dead .
 Of course , Lucius did not know what the diary really was .
 I understand that Voldemort had told him the diary would cause the Chamber of Secrets to reopen because it was cleverly enchanted .
 Had Lucius known he held a portion of his master’s soul in his hands , he would undoubtedly have treated it with more reverence but instead he went ahead and carried out the old plan for his own ends : By planting the diary upon Arthur Weasley’s daughter , he hoped to discredit Arthur and get rid of a highly incriminating magical object in one stroke .
 Ah , poor Lucius what with Voldemort ’ s fury about the fact that he threw away the Horcrux for his own gain , and the fiasco at the Ministry last year , I would not be surprised if he is not secretly glad to be safe in Azkaban at the moment . ”
 Harry sat in thought for a moment , then asked , “ So if all of his Horcruxes are destroyed , Voldemort could be killed ? ”
 “ Yes , I think so , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ Without his Horcruxes , Voldemort will be a mortal man with a maimed and diminished soul .
 Never forget , though , that while his soul may be damaged beyond repair , his brain and his magical powers remain intact .
 It will take uncommon skill and power to kill a wizard like Voldemort even without his Horcruxes . ”
 “ But I haven’t got uncommon skill and power , ” said Harry , before he could stop himself .
 “ Yes , you have , ” said Dumbledore firmly .
 “ You have a power that Voldemort has never had .
 You can ” “ I know ! ”
 said Harry impatiently .
 “ I can love ! ”
 It was only with difficulty that he stopped himself adding , “ Big deal ! ”
 “ Yes , Harry , you can love , ” said Dumbledore , who looked as though he knew perfectly well what Harry had just refrained from saying .
 “ Which , given everything that has happened to you , is a great and remarkable thing .
 You are still too young to understand how unusual you are , Harry . ”
 “ So , when the prophecy says that I’ll have ‘ power the Dark Lord knows not , ’ it just means love ? ”
 asked Harry , feeling a little let down .
 “ Yes just love , ” said Dumbledore .
 “ But Harry , never forget that what the prophecy says is only significant because Voldemort made it so .
 I told you this at the end of last year .
 Voldemort singled you out as the person who would be most dangerous to him and in doing so , he made you the person who would be most dangerous to him ! ”
 “ But it comes to the same ” “ No , it doesn’t ! ”
 said Dumbledore , sounding impatient now .
 Pointing at Harry with his black , withered hand , he said , “ You are setting too much store by the prophecy ! ”
 “ But , ” spluttered Harry , “ but you said the prophecy means ” “ If Voldemort had never heard of the prophecy , would it have been fulfilled ?
 Would it have meant anything ?
 Of course not !
 Do you think every prophecy in the Hall of Prophecy has been fulfilled ? ”
 “ But , ” said Harry , bewildered , “ but last year , you said one of us would have to kill the other ” “ Harry , Harry , only because Voldemort made a grave error , and acted on Professor Trelawney’s words !
 If Voldemort had never murdered your father , would he have imparted in you a furious desire for revenge ?
 Of course not !
 If he had not forced your mother to die for you , would he have given you a magical protection he could not penetrate ?
 Of course not , Harry !
 Don’t you see ?
 Voldemort himself created his worst enemy , just as tyrants everywhere do !
 Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress ?
 All of them realize that , one day , amongst their many victims , there is sure to be one who rises against them and strikes back !
 Voldemort is no different !
 Always he was on the lookout for the one who would challenge him .
 He heard the prophecy and he leapt into action , with the result that he not only handpicked the man most likely to finish him , he handed him uniquely deadly weapons ! ”
 “ But ” “ It is essential that you understand this ! ”
 said Dumbledore , standing up and striding about the room , his glittering robes swooshing in his wake Harry had never seen him so agitated .
 “ By attempting to kill you , Voldemort himself singled out the remarkable person who sits here in front of me , and gave him the tools for the job !
 It is Voldemort ’ s fault that you were able to see into his thoughts , his ambitions , that you even understand the snakelike language in which he gives orders , and yet , Harry , despite your privileged insight into Voldemort’s world ( which , incidentally , is a gift any Death Eater would kill to have ) , you have never been seduced by the Dark Arts , never , even for a second , shown the slightest desire to become one of Voldemort’s followers ! ”
 “ Of course I haven’t ! ”
 said Harry indignantly .
 “ He killed my mum and dad ! ”
 “ You are protected , in short , by your ability to love ! ”
 said Dumbledore loudly .
 “ The only protection that can possibly work against the lure of power like Voldemort’s !
 In spite of all the temptation you have endured , all the suffering , you remain pure of heart , just as pure as you were at the age of eleven , when you stared into a mirror that reflected your heart’s desire , and it showed you only the way to thwart Lord Voldemort , and not immortality or riches .
 Harry , have you any idea how few wizards could have seen what you saw in that mirror ?
 Voldemort should have known then what he was dealing with , but he did not !
 “ But he knows it now .
 You have flitted into Lord Voldemort’s mind without damage to yourself , but he cannot possess you without enduring mortal agony , as he discovered in the Ministry .
 I do not think he understands why , Harry , but then , he was in such a hurry to mutilate his own soul , he never paused to understand the incomparable power of a soul that is untarnished and whole . ”
 “ But , sir , ” said Harry , making valiant efforts not to sound argumentative , “ it all comes to the same thing , doesn’t it ?
 I’ve got to try and kill him , or ” “ Got to ? ”
 said Dumbledore .
 “ Of course you’ve got to !
 But not because of the prophecy !
 Because you , yourself , will never rest until you’ve tried !
 We both know it !
 Imagine , please , just for a moment , that you had never heard that prophecy !
 How would you feel about Voldemort now ?
 Think ! ”
 Harry watched Dumbledore striding up and down in front of him , and thought .
 He thought of his mother , his father , and Sirius .
 He thought of Cedric Diggory .
 He thought of all the terrible deeds he knew Lord Voldemort had done .
 A flame seemed to leap inside his chest , searing his throat .
 “ I’d want him finished , ” said Harry quietly .
 “ And I’d want to do it . ”
 “ Of course you would ! ”
 cried Dumbledore .
 “ You see , the prophecy does not mean you have to do anything !
 But the prophecy caused Lord Voldemort to mark you as his equal .
 In other words , you are free to choose your way , quite free to turn your back on the prophecy !
 But Voldemort continues to set store by the prophecy .
 He will continue to hunt you which makes it certain , really , that ” “ That one of us is going to end up killing the other , ” said Harry .
 “ Yes . ”
 But he understood at last what Dumbledore had been trying to tell him .
 It was , he thought , the difference between being dragged into the arena to face a battle to the death and walking into the arena with your head held high .
 Some people , perhaps , would say that there was little to choose between the two ways , but Dumbledore knew and so do I , thought Harry , with a rush of fierce pride , and so did my parents that there was all the difference in the world .
 SECTUMSEMPRA Exhausted but delighted with his night’s work , Harry told Ron and Hermione everything that had happened during next morning’s Charms lesson ( having first cast the Muffliato spell upon those nearest them ) .
 They were both satisfyingly impressed by the way he had wheedled the memory out of Slughorn and positively awed when he told them about Voldemort’s Horcruxes and Dumbledore’s promise to take Harry along , should he find another one .
 “ Wow , ” said Ron , when Harry had finally finished telling them everything Ron was waving his wand very vaguely in the direction of the ceiling without paying the slightest bit of attention to what he was doing .
 “ Wow .
 You’re actually going to go with Dumbledore and try and destroy wow . ”
 “ Ron , you’re making it snow , ” said Hermione patiently , grabbing his wrist and redirecting his wand away from the ceiling from which , sure enough , large white flakes had started to fall .
 Lavender Brown , Harry noticed , glared at Hermione from a neighboring table through very red eyes , and Hermione immediately let go of Ron’s arm .
 “ Oh yeah , ” said Ron , looking down at his shoulders in vague surprise .
 “ Sorry looks like we’ve all got horrible dandruff now . ”
 He brushed some of the fake snow off Hermione ’ s shoulder .
 Lavender burst into tears .
 Ron looked immensely guilty and turned his back on her .
 “ We split up , ” he told Harry out of the corner of his mouth .
 “ Last night .
 When she saw me coming out of the dormitory with Hermione .
 Obviously she couldn’t see you , so she thought it had just been the two of us . ”
 “ Ah , ” said Harry .
 “ Well you don’t mind it’s over , do you ? ”
 “ No , ” Ron admitted .
 “ It was pretty bad while she was yelling , but at least I didn’t have to finish it . ”
 “ Coward , ” said Hermione , though she looked amused .
 “ Well , it was a bad night for romance all around .
 Ginny and Dean split up too , Harry . ”
 Harry thought there was a rather knowing look in her eye as she told him that , but she could not possibly know that his insides were suddenly dancing the conga .
 Keeping his face as immobile and his voice as indifferent as he could , he asked , “ How come ? ”
 “ Oh , something really silly She said he was always trying to help her through the portrait hole , like she couldn’t climb in herself but they’ve been a bit rocky for ages . ”
 Harry glanced over at Dean on the other side of the classroom .
 He certainly looked unhappy .
 “ Of course , this puts you in a bit of a dilemma , doesn’t it ? ”
 said Hermione .
 “ What d’you mean ? ”
 said Harry quickly .
 “ The Quidditch team , ” said Hermione .
 “ If Ginny and Dean aren’t speaking ” “ Oh oh yeah , ” said Harry .
 “ Flitwick , ” said Ron in a warning tone .
 The tiny little Charms master was bobbing his way toward them , and Hermione was the only one who had managed to turn vinegar into wine her glass flask was full of deep crimson liquid , whereas the contents of Harry’s and Ron’s were still murky brown .
 “ Now , now , boys , ” squeaked Professor Flitwick reproachfully .
 “ A little less talk , a little more action Let me see you try . ”
 Together they raised their wands , concentrating with all their might , and pointed them at their flasks .
 Harry’s vinegar turned to ice Ron’s flask exploded .
 “ Yes for homework , ” said Professor Flitwick , reemerging from under the table and pulling shards of glass out of the top of his hat , “ practice . ”
 They had one of their rare joint free periods after Charms and walked back to the common room together .
 Ron seemed to be positively lighthearted about the end of his relationship with Lavender , and Hermione seemed cheery too , though when asked what she was grinning about she simply said , “ It’s a nice day . ”
 Neither of them seemed to have noticed that a fierce battle was raging inside Harry’s brain : She’s Ron’s sister .
 But she’s ditched Dean !
 She’s still Ron’s sister .
 I’m his best mate !
 That’ll make it worse .
 If I talked to him first He’d hit you .
 What if I don’t care ?
 He’s your best mate Harry barely noticed that they were climbing through the portrait hole into the sunny common room , and only vaguely registered the small group of seventh years clustered together there , until Hermione cried , “ Katie !
 You’re back !
 Are you okay ? ”
 Harry stared : It was indeed Katie Bell , looking completely healthy and surrounded by her jubilant friends .
 “ I’m really well ! ”
 she said happily .
 “ They let me out of St .
 Mungo’s on Monday , I had a couple of days at home with Mum and Dad and then came back here this morning .
 Leanne was just telling me about McLaggen and the last match , Harry . ”
 “ Yeah , ” said Harry , “ well , now you’re back and Ron’s fit , we’ll have a decent chance of thrashing Ravenclaw , which means we could still be in the running for the Cup .
 Listen , Katie ” He had to put the question to her at once his curiosity even drove Ginny temporarily from his brain .
 He dropped his voice as Katie’s friends started gathering up their things apparently they were late for Transfiguration . “
 that necklace can you remember who gave it to you now ? ”
 “ No , ” said Katie , shaking her head ruefully .
 “ Everyone’s been asking me , but I haven’t got a clue .
 The last thing I remember was walking into the ladies ’ in the Three Broomsticks . ”
 “ You definitely went into the bathroom , then ? ”
 said Hermione .
 “ Well , I know I pushed open the door , ” said Katie , “ so I suppose whoever Imperiused me was standing just behind it .
 After that , my memory’s a blank until about two weeks ago in St .
 Mungo’s .
 Listen , I’d better go , I wouldn’t put it past McGonagall to give me lines even if it is my first day back . ”
 She caught up her bag and books and hurried after her friends , leaving Harry , Ron , and Hermione to sit down at a window table and ponder what she had told them .
 “ So it must have been a girl or a woman who gave Katie the necklace , ” said Hermione , “ to be in the ladies ’ bathroom . ”
 “ Or someone who looked like a girl or a woman , ” said Harry .
 “ Don’t forget , there was a cauldron full of Polyjuice Potion at Hogwarts .
 We know some of it got stolen . ”
 In his mind’s eye , he watched a parade of Crabbes and Goyles prance past , all transformed into girls .
 “ I think I’m going to take another swig of Felix , ” said Harry , “ and have a go at the Room of Requirement again . ”
 “ That would be a complete waste of potion , ” said Hermione flatly , putting down the copy of Spellman’s Syllabary she had just taken out of her bag .
 “ Luck can only get you so far , Harry .
 The situation with Slughorn was different you always had the ability to persuade him , you just needed to tweak the circumstances a bit .
 Luck isn’t enough to get you through a powerful enchantment , though .
 Don’t go wasting the rest of that potion !
 You’ll need all the luck you can get if Dumbledore takes you along with him ” She dropped her voice to a whisper .
 “ Couldn’t we make some more ? ”
 Ron asked Harry , ignoring Hermione .
 “ It’d be great to have a stock of it .
 Have a look in the book ” Harry pulled his copy of Advanced Potion Making out of his bag and looked up Felix Felicis .
 “ Blimey , it’s seriously complicated , ” he said , running an eye down the list of ingredients .
 “ And it takes six months You’ve got to let it stew . ”
 “ Typical , ” said Ron .
 Harry was about to put his book away again when he noticed the corner of a page folded down turning to it , he saw the Sectumsempra spell , captioned “ For Enemies , ” that he had marked a few weeks previously .
 He had still not found out what it did , mainly because he did not want to test it around Hermione , but he was considering trying it out on McLaggen next time he came up behind him unawares .
 The only person who was not particularly pleased to see Katie Bell back at school was Dean Thomas , because he would no longer be required to fill her place as Chaser .
 He took the blow stoically enough when Harry told him , merely grunting and shrugging , but Harry had the distinct feeling as he walked away that Dean and Seamus were muttering mutinously behind his back .
 The following fortnight saw the best Quidditch practices Harry had known as Captain .
 His team was so pleased to be rid of McLaggen , so glad to have Katie back at last , that they were flying extremely well .
 Ginny did not seem at all upset about the breakup with Dean on the contrary , she was the life and soul of the team .
 Her imitations of Ron anxiously bobbing up and down in front of the goal posts as the Quaffle sped toward him , or of Harry bellowing orders at McLaggen before being knocked out cold , kept them all highly amused .
 Harry , laughing with the others , was glad to have an innocent reason to look at Ginny he had received several more Bludger injuries during practice because he had not been keeping his eyes on the Snitch .
 The battle still raged inside his head : Ginny or Ron ?
 Sometimes he thought that the post Lavender Ron might not mind too much if he asked Ginny out , but then he remembered Ron’s expression when he had seen her kissing Dean , and was sure that Ron would consider it base treachery if Harry so much as held her hand .
 Yet Harry could not help himself talking to Ginny , laughing with her , walking back from practice with her however much his conscience ached , he found himself wondering how best to get her on her own .
 It would have been ideal if Slughorn had given another of his little parties , for Ron would not be around but unfortunately , Slughorn seemed to have given them up .
 Once or twice Harry considered asking for Hermione’s help , but he did not think he could stand seeing the smug look on her face he thought he caught it sometimes when Hermione spotted him staring at Ginny or laughing at her jokes .
 And to complicate matters , he had the nagging worry that if he didn’t do it , somebody else was sure to ask Ginny out soon : He and Ron were at least agreed on the fact that she was too popular for her own good .
 All in all , the temptation to take another gulp of Felix Felicis was becoming stronger by the day , for surely this was a case for , as Hermione put it , “ tweaking the circumstances ” ?
 The balmy days slid gently through May , and Ron seemed to be there at Harry’s shoulder every time he saw Ginny .
 Harry found himself longing for a stroke of luck that would somehow cause Ron to realize that nothing would make him happier than his best friend and his sister falling for each other and to leave them alone together for longer than a few seconds .
 There seemed no chance of either while the final Quidditch game of the season was looming Ron wanted to talk tactics with Harry all the time and had little thought for anything else .
 Ron was not unique in this respect interest in the Gryffindor Ravenclaw game was running extremely high throughout the school , for the match would decide the Championship , which was still wide open .
 If Gryffindor beat Ravenclaw by a margin of three hundred points ( a tall order , and yet Harry had never known his team to fly better ) then they would win the Championship .
 If they won by less than three hundred points , they would come second to Ravenclaw if they lost by a hundred points they would be third behind Hufflepuff and if they lost by more than a hundred , they would be in fourth place and nobody , Harry thought , would ever , ever let him forget that it had been he who had captained Gryffindor to their first bottom of the table defeat in two centuries .
 The run up to this crucial match had all the usual features : members of rival Houses attempting to intimidate opposing teams in the corridors unpleasant chants about individual players being rehearsed loudly as they passed the team members themselves either swaggering around enjoying all the attention or else dashing into bathrooms between classes to throw up .
 Somehow , the game had become inextricably linked in Harry’s mind with success or failure in his plans for Ginny .
 He could not help feeling that if they won by more than three hundred points , the scenes of euphoria and a nice loud after match party might be just as good as a hearty swig of Felix Felicis .
 In the midst of all his preoccupations , Harry had not forgotten his other ambition : finding out what Malfoy was up to in the Room of Requirement .
 He was still checking the Marauder’s Map , and as he was unable to locate Malfoy on it , deduced that Malfoy was still spending plenty of time within the room .
 Although Harry was losing hope that he would ever succeed in getting inside the Room of Requirement , he attempted it whenever he was in the vicinity , but no matter how he reworded his request , the wall remained firmly doorless .
 A few days before the match against Ravenclaw , Harry found himself walking down to dinner alone from the common room , Ron having rushed off into a nearby bathroom to throw up yet again , and Hermione having dashed off to see Professor Vector about a mistake she thought she might have made in her last Arithmancy essay .
 More out of habit than anything , Harry made his usual detour along the seventh floor corridor , checking the Marauder’s Map as he went .
 For a moment he could not find Malfoy anywhere and assumed he must indeed be inside the Room of Requirement again , but then he saw Malfoy’s tiny , labeled dot standing in a boys ’ bathroom on the floor below , accompanied , not by Crabbe or Goyle , but by Moaning Myrtle .
 Harry only stopped staring at this unlikely coupling when he walked right into a suit of armor .
 The loud crash brought him out of his reverie hurrying from the scene lest Filch turn up , he dashed down the marble staircase and along the passageway below .
 Outside the bathroom , he pressed his ear against the door .
 He could not hear anything .
 He very quietly pushed the door open .
 Draco Malfoy was standing with his back to the door , his hands clutching either side of the sink , his white blond head bowed .
 “ Don’t , ” crooned Moaning Myrtle’s voice from one of the cubicles .
 “ Don’t tell me what’s wrong I can help you . ”
 “ No one can help me , ” said Malfoy .
 His whole body was shaking .
 “ I can’t do it .
 I can’t .
 It won’t work and unless I do it soon he says he’ll kill me . ”
 And Harry realized , with a shock so huge it seemed to root him to the spot , that Malfoy was crying actually crying tears streaming down his pale face into the grimy basin .
 Malfoy gasped and gulped and then , with a great shudder , looked up into the cracked mirror and saw Harry staring at him over his shoulder .
 Malfoy wheeled around , drawing his wand .
 Instinctively , Harry pulled out his own .
 Malfoy’s hex missed Harry by inches , shattering the lamp on the wall beside him Harry threw himself sideways , thought Levicorpus and flicked his wand , but Malfoy blocked the jinx and raised his wand for another “ No !
 No !
 Stop it ! ”
 squealed Moaning Myrtle , her voice echoing loudly around the tiled room .
 “ Stop !
 STOP ! ”
 There was a loud bang and the bin behind Harry exploded Harry attempted a Leg Locker Curse that backfired off the wall behind Malfoy’s ear and smashed the cistern beneath Moaning Myrtle , who screamed loudly water poured everywhere and Harry slipped as Malfoy , his face contorted , cried , “ Cruci ” “ SECTUMSEMPRAl ” bellowed Harry from the floor , waving his wand wildly .
 Blood spurted from Malfoy’s face and chest as though he had been slashed with an invisible sword .
 He staggered backward and collapsed onto the waterlogged floor with a great splash , his wand falling from his limp right hand .
 “ No ” gasped Harry .
 Slipping and staggering , Harry got to his feet and plunged toward Malfoy , whose face was now shining scarlet , his white hands scrabbling at his blood soaked chest .
 “ No I didn’t ” Harry did not know what he was saying he fell to his knees beside Malfoy , who was shaking uncontrollably in a pool of his own blood .
 Moaning Myrtle let out a deafening scream : “ MURDER !
 MURDER IN THE BATHROOM !
 MURDER ! ”
 The door banged open behind Harry and he looked up , terrified : Snape had burst into the room , his face livid .
 Pushing Harry roughly aside , he knelt over Malfoy , drew his wand , and traced it over the deep wounds Harry’s curse had made , muttering an incantation that sounded almost like song .
 The flow of blood seemed to ease Snape wiped the residue from Malfoy’s face and repeated his spell .
 Now the wounds seemed to be knitting .
 Harry was still watching , horrified by what he had done , barely aware that he too was soaked in blood and water .
 Moaning Myrtle was still sobbing and wailing overhead .
 When Snape had performed his countercurse for the third time , he half lifted Malfoy into a standing position .
 “ You need the hospital wing .
 There may be a certain amount of scarring , but if you take dittany immediately we might avoid even that .
 Come . ”
 He supported Malfoy across the bathroom , turning at the door to say in a voice of cold fury , “ And you , Potter You wait here for me . ”
 It did not occur to Harry for a second to disobey .
 He stood up slowly , shaking , and looked down at the wet floor .
 There were bloodstains floating like crimson flowers across its surface .
 He could not even find it in himself to tell Moaning Myrtle to be quiet , as she continued to wail and sob with increasingly evident enjoyment .
 Snape returned ten minutes later .
 He stepped into the bathroom and closed the door behind him .
 “ Go , ” he said to Myrtle , and she swooped back into her toilet at once , leaving a ringing silence behind her .
 “ I didn’t mean it to happen , ” said Harry at once .
 His voice echoed in the cold , watery space .
 “ I didn’t know what that spell did . ”
 But Snape ignored this .
 “ Apparently I underestimated you , Potter , ” he said quietly .
 “ Who would have thought you knew such Dark Magic ?
 Who taught you that spell ? ”
 “ I read about it somewhere . ”
 “ Where ? ”
 “ It was a library book , ” Harry invented wildly .
 “ I can’t remember what it was call ” “ Liar , ” said Snape .
 Harry’s throat went dry .
 He knew what Snape was going to do and he had never been able to prevent it .
 The bathroom seemed to shimmer before his eyes he struggled to block out all thought , but try as he might , the Half Blood Prince’s copy of Advanced Potion Making swam hazily to the forefront of his mind .
 And then he was staring at Snape again , in the midst of this wrecked , soaked bathroom .
 He stared into Snape’s black eyes , hoping against hope that Snape had not seen what he feared , but “ Bring me your schoolbag , ” said Snape softly , “ and all of your schoolbooks .
 All of them .
 Bring them to me here .
 Now ! ”
 There was no point arguing .
 Harry turned at once and splashed out of the bathroom .
 Once in the corridor , he broke into a run toward Gryffindor Tower .
 Most people were walking the other way they gaped at him , drenched in water and blood , but he answered none of the questions fired at him as he ran past .
 He felt stunned it was as though a beloved pet had turned suddenly savage what had the Prince been thinking to copy such a spell into his book ?
 And what would happen when Snape saw it ?
 Would he tell Slughorn Harry’s stomach churned how Harry had been achieving such good results in Potions all year ?
 Would he confiscate or destroy the book that had taught Harry so much the book that had become a kind of guide and friend ?
 Harry could not let it happen .
 He could not “ Where Ve you ?
 Why are you soaking ?
 Is that blood ? ”
 Ron was standing at the top of the stairs , looking bewildered at the sight of Harry .
 “ I need your book , ” Harry panted .
 “ Your Potions book .
 Quick give it to me ” “ But what about the Half Blood ” “ I’ll explain later ! ”
 Ron pulled his copy of Advanced Potion Making out of his bag and handed it over Harry sprinted off past him and back to the common room .
 Here , he seized his schoolbag , ignoring the amazed looks of several people who had already finished their dinner , threw himself back out of the portrait hole , and hurtled off along the seventh floor corridor .
 He skidded to a halt beside the tapestry of dancing trolls , closed his eyes , and began to walk .
 I need a place to hide my book .
 I need a place to hide my book .
 I need a place to hide my book .
 Three times he walked up and down in front of the stretch of blank wall .
 When he opened his eyes , there it was at last : the door to the Room of Requirement .
 Harry wrenched it open , flung himself inside , and slammed it shut .
 He gasped .
 Despite his haste , his panic , his fear of what awaited him back in the bathroom , he could not help but be overawed by what he was looking at .
 He was standing in a room the size of a large cathedral , whose high windows were sending shafts of light down upon what looked like a city with towering walls , built of what Harry knew must be objects hidden by generations of Hogwarts inhabitants .
 There were alleyways and roads bordered by teetering piles of broken and damaged furniture , stowed away , perhaps , to hide the evidence of mishandled magic , or else hidden by castle proud house elves .
 There were thousands and thousands of books , no doubt banned or graffitied or stolen .
 There were winged catapults and Fanged Frisbees , some still with enough life in them to hover halfheartedly over the mountains of other forbidden items there were chipped bottles of congealed potions , hats , jewels , cloaks there were what looked like dragon eggshells , corked bottles whose contents still shimmered evilly , several rusting swords , and a heavy , bloodstained axe .
 Harry hurried forward into one of the many alleyways between all this hidden treasure .
 He turned right past an enormous stuffed troll , ran on a short way , took a left at the broken Vanishing Cabinet in which Montague had got lost the previous year , finally pausing beside a large cupboard that seemed to have had acid thrown at its blistered surface .
 He opened one of the cupboard’s creaking doors : It had already been used as a hiding place for something in a cage that had long since died its skeleton had five legs .
 He stuffed the Half Blood Prince’s book behind the cage and slammed the door .
 He paused for a moment , his heart thumping horribly , gazing around at all the clutter .
 Would he be able to find this spot again amidst all this junk ?
 Seizing the chipped bust of an ugly old warlock from on top of a nearby crate , he stood it on top of the cupboard where the book was now hidden , perched a dusty old wig and a tarnished tiara on the statue’s head to make it more distinctive , then sprinted back through the alleyways of hidden junk as fast as he could go , back to the door , back out onto the corridor , where he slammed the door behind him , and it turned at once back into stone .
 Harry ran flat out toward the bathroom on the floor below , cramming Ron’s copy of Advanced Potion Making into his bag as he did so .
 A minute later , he was back in front of Snape , who held out his hand wordlessly for Harry’s schoolbag .
 Harry handed it over , panting , a searing pain in his chest , and waited .
 One by one , Snape extracted Harry’s books and examined them .
 Finally , the only book left was the Potions book , which he looked at very carefully before speaking .
 “ This is your copy of Advanced Potion Making , is it , Potter ? ”
 “ Yes , ” said Harry , still breathing hard .
 “ You’re quite sure of that , are you , Potter ? ”
 “ Yes , ” said Harry , with a touch more defiance .
 “ This is the copy of Advanced Potion Making that you purchased from Flourish and Blotts ? ”
 “ Yes , ” said Harry firmly .
 “ Then why , ” asked Snape , “ does it have the name ‘ Roonil Wazlib ’ written inside the front cover ? ”
 Harry’s heart missed a beat .
 “ That’s my nickname , ” he said .
 “ Your nickname , ” repeated Snape .
 “ Yeah that’s what my friends call me , ” said Harry .
 “ I understand what a nickname is , ” said Snape .
 The cold , black eyes were boring once more into Harry’s he tried not to look into them .
 Close your mind .
 Close your mind .
 But he had never learned how to do it properly .
 “ Do you know what I think , Potter ? ”
 said Snape , very quietly .
 “ I think that you are a liar and a cheat and that you deserve detention with me every Saturday until the end of term .
 What do you think , Potter ? ”
 “ I I don’t agree , sir , ” said Harry , still refusing to look into Snape ’ s eyes .
 “ Well , we shall see how you feel after your detentions , ” said Snape .
 “ Ten o’clock Saturday morning , Potter .
 My office . ”
 “ But sir ” said Harry , looking up desperately .
 “ Quidditch the last match of the ” “ Ten o’clock , ” whispered Snape , with a smile that showed his yellow teeth .
 “ Poor Gryffindor fourth place this year , I fear ” And he left the bathroom without another word , leaving Harry to stare into the cracked mirror , feeling sicker , he was sure , than Ron had ever felt in his life .
 “ I won’t say ‘ I told you so , ’ ” said Hermione , an hour later in the common room .
 “ Leave it , Hermione , ” said Ron angrily .
 Harry had never made it to dinner he had no appetite at all .
 He had just finished telling Ron , Hermione , and Ginny what had happened , not that there seemed to have been much need .
 The news had traveled very fast : Apparently Moaning Myrtle had taken it upon herself to pop up in every bathroom in the castle to tell the story Malfoy had already been visited in the hospital wing by Pansy Parkinson , who had lost no time in vilifying Harry far and wide , and Snape had told the staff precisely what had happened .
 Harry had already been called out of the common room to endure fifteen highly unpleasant minutes in the company of Professor McGonagall , who had told him he was lucky not to have been expelled and that she supported wholeheartedly Snape ’ s punishment of detention every Saturday until the end of term .
 “ I told you there was something wrong with that Prince person , ” Hermione said , evidently unable to stop herself .
 “ And I was right , wasn’t I ? ”
 “ No , I don’t think you were , ” said Harry stubbornly .
 He was having a bad enough time without Hermione lecturing him the looks on the Gryffindor team’s faces when he had told them he would not be able to play on Saturday had been the worst punishment of all .
 He could feel Ginny’s eyes on him now but did not meet them he did not want to see disappointment or anger there .
 He had just told her that she would be playing Seeker on Saturday and that Dean would be rejoining the team as Chaser in her place .
 Perhaps , if they won , Ginny and Dean would make up during the post match euphoria .
 The thought went through Harry like an icy knife .
 “ Harry , ” said Hermione , “ how can you still stick up for that book when that spell ” “ Will you stop harping on about the book ! ”
 snapped Harry .
 “ The Prince only copied it out !
 It’s not like he was advising anyone to use it !
 For all we know , he was making a note of something that had been used against him ! ”
 “ I don’t believe this , ” said Hermione .
 “ You’re actually defending ” “ I’m not defending what I did ! ”
 said Harry quickly .
 “ I wish I hadn’t done it , and not just because I’ve got about a dozen detentions .
 You know I wouldn’t ’ ve used a spell like that , not even on Malfoy , but you can’t blame the Prince , he hadn’t written ‘ try this out , it’s really good ’ he was just making notes for himself , wasn’t he , not for anyone else . ”
 “ Are you telling me , ” said Hermione , “ that you’re going to go back ? ”
 “ And get the book ?
 Yeah , I am , ” said Harry forcefully .
 “ Listen , without the Prince I’d never have won the Felix Felicis .
 I’d never have known how to save Ron from poisoning , I’d never have ” “ got a reputation for Potions brilliance you don’t deserve , ” said Hermione nastily .
 “ Give it a rest , Hermione ! ”
 said Ginny , and Harry was so amazed , so grateful , he looked up .
 “ By the sound of it , Malfoy was trying to use an Unforgivable Curse , you should be glad Harry had something good up his sleeve ! ”
 “ Well , of course I’m glad Harry wasn’t cursed ! ”
 said Hermione , clearly stung .
 “ But you can’t call that Sectumsempra spell good , Ginny , look where it’s landed him !
 And I’d have thought , seeing what this has done to your chances in the match ” “ Oh , don’t start acting as though you understand Quidditch , ” snapped Ginny , “ you’ll only embarrass yourself . ”
 Harry and Ron stared : Hermione and Ginny , who had always got on together very well , were now sitting with their arms folded , glaring in opposite directions .
 Ron looked nervously at Harry , then snatched up a book at random and hid behind it .
 Harry , however , little though he knew he deserved it , felt unbelievably cheerful all of a sudden , even though none of them spoke again for the rest of the evening .
 His lightheartedness was short lived .
 There were Slytherin taunts to be endured next day , not to mention much anger from fellow Gryffindors , who were most unhappy that their Captain had got himself banned from the final match of the season .
 By Saturday morning , whatever he might have told Hermione , Harry would have gladly exchanged all the Felix Felicis in the world to be walking down to the Quidditch pitch with Ron , Ginny , and the others .
 It was almost unbearable to turn away from the mass of students streaming out into the sunshine , all of them wearing rosettes and hats and brandishing banners and scarves , to descend the stone steps into the dungeons and walk until the distant sounds of the crowd were quite obliterated , knowing that he would not be able to hear a word of commentary or a cheer or groan .
 “ Ah , Potter , ” said Snape , when Harry had knocked on his door and entered the unpleasantly familiar office that Snape , despite teaching floors above now , had not vacated it was as dimly lit as ever and the same slimy dead objects were suspended in colored potions all around the walls .
 Ominously , there were many cobwebbed boxes piled on a table where Harry was clearly supposed to sit they had an aura of tedious , hard , and pointless work about them .
 “ Mr Filch has been looking for someone to clear out these old files , ” said Snape softly .
 “ They are the records of other Hogwarts wrongdoers and their punishments .
 Where the ink has grown faint , or the cards have suffered damage from mice , we would like you to copy out the crimes and punishments afresh and , making sure that they are in alphabetical order , replace them in the boxes .
 You will not use magic . ”
 “ Right , Professor , ” said Harry , with as much contempt as he could put into the last three syllables .
 “ I thought you could start , ” said Snape , a malicious smile on his lips , “ with boxes one thousand and twelve to one thousand and fifty six .
 You will find some familiar names in there , which should add interest to the task .
 Here , you see ” He pulled out a card from one of the topmost boxes with a flourish and read , “ ‘ James Potter and Sirius Black .
 Apprehended using an illegal hex upon Bertram Aubrey .
 Aubrey’s head twice normal size .
 Double detention . ’ ”
 Snape sneered .
 “ It must be such a comfort to think that , though they are gone , a record of their great achievements remains . ”
 Harry felt the familiar boiling sensation in the pit of his stomach .
 Biting his tongue to prevent himself retaliating , he sat down in front of the boxes and pulled one toward him .
 It was , as Harry had anticipated , useless , boring work , punctuated ( as Snape had clearly planned ) with the regular jolt in the stomach that meant he had just read his father or Sirius’s names , usually coupled together in various petty misdeeds , occasionally accompanied by those of Remus Lupin and Peter Pettigrew .
 And while he copied out all their various offenses and punishments , he wondered what was going on outside , where the match would have just started Ginny playing Seeker against Cho Harry glanced again and again at the large clock ticking on the wall .
 It seemed to be moving half as fast as a regular clock perhaps Snape had bewitched it to go extra slowly ?
 He could not have been here for only half an hour an hour an hour and a half .
 Harry’s stomach started rumbling when the clock showed half past twelve .
 Snape , who had not spoken at all since setting Harry his task , finally looked up at ten past one .
 “ I think that will do , ” he said coldly .
 “ Mark the place you have reached .
 You will continue at ten o’clock next Saturday . ”
 “ Yes , sir . ”
 Harry stuffed a bent card into the box at random and hurried out of the door before Snape could change his mind , racing back up the stone steps , straining his ears to hear a sound from the pitch , but all was quiet .
 It was over , then .
 He hesitated outside the crowded Great Hall , then ran up the marble staircase whether Gryffindor had won or lost , the team usually celebrated or commiserated in their own common room .
 “ Quid agis ? ”
 he said tentatively to the Fat Lady , wondering what he would find inside .
 Her expression was unreadable as she replied , “ You’ll see . ”
 And she swung forward .
 A roar of celebration erupted from the hole behind her .
 Harry gaped as people began to scream at the sight of him several hands pulled him into the room .
 “ We won ! ”
 yelled Ron , bounding into sight and brandishing the silver Cup at Harry .
 “ We won !
 Four hundred and fifty to a hundred and forty !
 We won ! ”
 Harry looked around there was Ginny running toward him she had a hard , blazing look in her face as she threw her arms around him .
 And without thinking , without planning it , without worrying about the fact that fifty people were watching , Harry kissed her .
 After several long moments or it might have been half an hour or possibly several sunlit days they broke apart .
 The room had gone very quiet .
 Then several people wolf whistled and there was an outbreak of nervous giggling .
 Harry looked over the top of Ginny’s head to see Dean Thomas holding a shattered glass in his hand , and Romilda Vane looking as though she might throw something .
 Hermione was beaming , but Harry’s eyes sought Ron .
 At last he found him , still clutching the Cup and wearing an expression appropriate to having been clubbed over the head .
 For a fraction of a second they looked at each other , then Ron gave a tiny jerk of the head that Harry understood to mean , Well if you must .
 The creature in his chest roaring in triumph , he grinned down at Ginny and gestured wordlessly out of the portrait hole .
 A long walk in the grounds seemed indicated , during which if they had time they might discuss the match .