Chapter : THE WEDDING .
 Three o’clock on the following afternoon found Harry , Ron , Fred , and George standing outside the great white marquee in the orchard , awaiting the arrival of the wedding guests .
 Harry had taken a large dose of Polyjuice Potion and was now the double of a redheaded Muggle boy from the local village , Ottery St .
 Catchpole , from whom Fred had stolen hairs using a Summoning Charm .
 The plan was to introduce Harry as “ Cousin Barny ” and trust to the great number of Weasley relatives to camouflage him .
 All four of them were clutching seating plans , so that they could help show people to the right seats .
 A host of white robed waiters had arrived an hour earlier , along with a golden jacketed band , and all of these wizards were currently sitting a short distance away under a tree Harry could see a blue haze of pipe smoke issuing from the spot .
 Behind Harry , the entrance to the marquee revealed rows and rows of fragile golden chairs set on either side of a long purple carpet .
 The supporting poles were entwined with white and gold flowers .
 Fred and George had fastened an enormous bunch of golden balloons over the exact point where Bill and Fleur would shortly become husband and wife .
 Outside , butterflies and bees were hovering lazily over the grass and hedgerow .
 Harry was rather uncomfortable .
 The Muggle boy whose appearance he was affecting was slightly fatter than him , and his dress robes felt hot and tight in the full glare of a summer’s day .
 “ When I get married , ” said Fred , tugging at the collar of his own robes , “ I won’t be bothering with any of this nonsense .
 You can all wear what you like , and I’ll put a full Body Bind Curse on Mum until it’s all over . ”
 “ She wasn’t too bad this morning , considering , ” said George .
 “ Cried a bit about Percy not being here , but who wants him ?
 Oh blimey , brace yourselves here they come , look . ”
 Brightly colored figures were appearing , one by one , out of nowhere at the distant boundary of the yard .
 Within minutes a procession had formed , which began to snake its way up through the garden toward the marquee .
 Exotic flowers and bewitched birds fluttered on the witches ’ hats , while precious gems glittered from many of the wizards ’ cravats a hum of excited chatter grew louder and louder , drowning the sound of the bees as the crowd approached the tent .
 “ Excellent , I think I see a few veela cousins , ” said George , craning his neck for a better look .
 “ They’ll need help understanding our English customs , I’ll look after them . ”
 “ Not so fast , Your Holeyness , ” said Fred , and darting past the gaggle of middle aged witches heading the procession , he said , “ Here permettez moi to assister vous , ” to a pair of pretty French girls , who giggled and allowed him to escort them inside .
 George was left to deal with the middle aged witches and Ron took charge of Mr Weasley’s old Ministry colleague Perkins , while a rather deaf old couple fell to Harry’s lot .
 “ Wotcher , ” said a familiar voice as he came out of the marquee again and found Tonks and Lupin at the front of the queue .
 She had turned blonde for the occasion .
 “ Arthur told us you were the one with the curly hair .
 Sorry about last night , ” she added in a whisper as Harry led them up the aisle .
 “ The Ministry’s being very anti werewolf at the moment and we thought our presence might not do you any favors . ”
 “ It’s fine , I understand , ” said Harry , speaking more to Lupin than Tonks .
 Lupin gave him a swift smile , but as they turned away , Harry saw Lupin’s face fall again into lines of misery .
 He did not understand it , but there was no time to dwell on the matter : Hagrid was causing a certain amount of disruption .
 Having misunderstood Fred’s directions he had sat himself , not upon the magically enlarged and reinforced seat set aside for him in the back row , but on five seats that now resembled a large pile of golden matchsticks .
 While Mr Weasley repaired the damage and Hagrid shouted apologies to anybody who would listen , Harry hurried back to the entrance to find Ron face to face with a most eccentric looking wizard .
 Slightly cross eyed , with shoulder length white hair the texture of candyfloss , he wore a cap whose tassel dangled in front of his nose and robes of an eye watering shade of egg yolk yellow .
 An odd symbol , rather like a triangular eye , glistened from a golden chain around his neck .
 “ Xenophilius Lovegood , ” he said , extending a hand to Harry , “ my daughter and I live just over the hill , so kind of the good Weasleys to invite us .
 But I think you know my Luna ? ”
 he added to Ron .
 “ Yes , ” said Ron .
 “ Isn’t she with you ? ”
 “ She lingered in that charming little garden to say hello to the gnomes , such a glorious infestation !
 How few wizards realize just how much we can learn from the wise little gnomes or , to give them their correct name , the Gernumbli gardensi . ”
 “ Ours do know a lot of excellent swear words , ” said Ron , “ but I think Fred and George taught them those . ”
 He led a party of warlocks into the marquee as Luna rushed up .
 “ Hello , Harry ! ”
 she said .
 “ Er my name’s Barny , ” said Harry , flummoxed .
 “ Oh , have you changed that too ? ”
 she asked brightly .
 “ How did you know ? ”
 “ Oh , just your expression , ” she said .
 Like her father , Luna was wearing bright yellow robes , which she had accessorized with a large sunflower in her hair .
 Once you got over the brightness of it all , the general effect was quite pleasant .
 At least there were no radishes dangling from her ears .
 Xenophilius , who was deep in conversation with an acquaintance , had missed the exchange between Luna and Harry .
 Bidding the wizard farewell , he turned to his daughter , who held up her finger and said , “ Daddy , look one of the gnomes actually bit me ! ”
 “ How wonderful !
 Gnome saliva is enormously beneficial ! ”
 said Mr Lovegood , seizing Luna’s outstretched finger and examining the bleeding puncture marks .
 “ Luna , my love , if you should feel any burgeoning talent today perhaps an unexpected urge to sing opera or to declaim in Mermish do not repress it !
 You may have been gifted by the Gernumblies ! ”
 Ron , passing them in the opposite direction , let out a loud snort .
 “ Ron can laugh , ” said Luna serenely as Harry led her and Xenophilius toward their seats , “ but my father has done a lot of research on Gernumbli magic . ”
 “ Really ? ”
 said Harry , who had long since decided not to challenge Luna or her father’s peculiar views .
 “ Are you sure you don’t want to put anything on that bite , though ? ”
 “ Oh , it’s fine , ” said Luna , sucking her finger in a dreamy fashion and looking Harry up and down .
 “ You look smart .
 I told Daddy most people would probably wear dress robes , but he believes you ought to wear sun colors to a wedding , for luck , you know . ”
 As she drifted off after her father , Ron reappeared with an elderly witch clutching his arm .
 Her beaky nose , red rimmed eyes , and feathery pink hat gave her the look of a bad tempered flamingo . “
 and your hair’s much too long , Ronald , for a moment I thought you were Ginevra .
 Merlin’s beard , what is Xenophilius Lovegood wearing ?
 He looks like an omelet .
 And who are you ? ”
 she barked at Harry .
 “ Oh yeah , Auntie Muriel , this is our cousin Barny . ”
 “ Another Weasley ?
 You breed like gnomes .
 Isn’t Harry Potter here ?
 I was hoping to meet him .
 I thought he was a friend of yours , Ronald , or have you merely been boasting ? ”
 “ No he couldn’t come ” “ Hmm .
 Made an excuse , did he ?
 Not as gormless as he looks in press photographs , then .
 I’ve just been instructing the bride on how best to wear my tiara , ” she shouted at Harry .
 “ Goblin made , you know , and been in my family for centuries .
 She’s a good looking girl , but still French .
 Well , well , find me a good seat , Ronald , I am a hundred and seven and I ought not to be on my feet too long . ”
 Ron gave Harry a meaningful look as he passed and did not reappear for some time : When next they met at the entrance , Harry had shown a dozen more people to their places .
 The marquee was nearly full now , and for the first time there was no queue outside .
 “ Nightmare , Muriel is , ” said Ron , mopping his forehead on his sleeve .
 “ She used to come for Christmas every year , then , thank God , she took offense because Fred and George set off a Dung bomb under her chair at dinner .
 Dad always says she’ll have written them out of her will like they care , they’re going to end up richer than anyone in the family , rate they’re going .
 Wow , ” he added , blinking rather rapidly as Hermione came hurrying toward them .
 “ You look great ! ”
 “ Always the tone of surprise , ” said Hermione , though she smiled .
 She was wearing a floaty , lilac colored dress with matching high heels her hair was sleek and shiny .
 “ Your Great Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree , I just met her upstairs while she was giving Fleur the tiara .
 She said , ‘ Oh dear , is this the Muggle born ? ’
 and then , ‘ Bad posture and skinny ankles . ’ ”
 “ Don’t take it personally , she’s rude to everyone , ” said Ron .
 “ Talking about Muriel ? ”
 inquired George , reemerging from the marquee with Fred .
 “ Yeah , she’s just told me my ears are lopsided .
 Old bat .
 I wish old Uncle Bilius was still with us , though he was a right laugh at weddings . ”
 “ Wasn’t he the one who saw a Grim and died twenty four hours later ? ”
 asked Hermione .
 “ Well , yeah , he went a bit odd toward the end , ” conceded George .
 “ But before he went loopy he was the life and soul of the party , ” said Fred .
 “ He used to down an entire bottle of firewhisky , then run onto the dance floor , hoist up his robes , and start pulling bunches of flowers out of his ” “ Yes , he sounds a real charmer , ” said Hermione , while Harry roared with laughter .
 “ Never married , for some reason , ” said Ron .
 “ You amaze me , ” said Hermione .
 They were all laughing so much that none of them noticed the latecomer , a dark haired young man with a large , curved nose and thick black eyebrows , until he held out his invitation to Ron and said , with his eyes on Hermione , “ You look vunderful . ”
 “ Viktor ! ”
 she shrieked , and dropped her small beaded bag , which made a loud thump quite disproportionate to its size .
 As she scrambled , blushing , to pick it up , she said , “ I didn’t know you were goodness it’s lovely to see how are you ? ”
 Ron’s ears had turned bright red again .
 After glancing at Krum’s invitation as if he did not believe a word of it , he said , much too loudly , “ How come you’re here ? ”
 “ Fleur invited me , ” said Krum , eyebrows raised .
 Harry , who had no grudge against Krum , shook hands then , feeling that it would be prudent to remove Krum from Ron’s vicinity , offered to show him his seat .
 “ Your friend is not pleased to see me , ” said Krum as they entered the now packed marquee .
 “ Or is he a relative ? ”
 he added with a glance at Harry’s red curly hair .
 “ Cousin , ” Harry muttered , but Krum was not really listening .
 His appearance was causing a stir , particularly amongst the veela cousins : He was , after all , a famous Quidditch player .
 While people were still craning their necks to get a good look at him , Ron , Hermione , Fred , and George came hurrying down the aisle .
 “ Time to sit down , ” Fred told Harry , “ or we’re going to get run over by the bride . ”
 Harry , Ron , and Hermione took their seats in the second row behind Fred and George .
 Hermione looked rather pink and Ron’s ears were still scarlet .
 After a few moments he muttered to Harry , “ Did you see he’s grown a stupid little beard ? ”
 Harry gave a noncommittal grunt .
 A sense of jittery anticipation had filled the warm tent , the general murmuring broken by occasional spurts of excited laughter .
 Mr and Mrs Weasley strolled up the aisle , smiling and waving at relatives Mrs Weasley was wearing a brand new set of amethyst colored robes with a matching hat .
 A moment later Bill and Charlie stood up at the front of the marquee , both wearing dress robes , with large white roses in their buttonholes Fred wolf whistled and there was an outbreak of giggling from the veela cousins .
 Then the crowd fell silent as music swelled from what seemed to be the golden balloons .
 “ Ooooh ! ”
 said Hermione , swiveling around in her seat to look at the entrance .
 A great collective sigh issued from the assembled witches and wizards as Monsieur Delacour and Fleur came walking up the aisle , Fleur gliding , Monsieur Delacour bouncing and beaming .
 Fleur was wearing a very simple white dress and seemed to be emitting a strong , silvery glow .
 While her radiance usually dimmed everyone else by comparison , today it beautified everybody it fell upon .
 Ginny and Gabrielle , both wearing golden dresses , looked even prettier than usual , and once Fleur had reached him , Bill did not look as though he had ever met Fenrir Greyback .
 “ Ladies and gentlemen , ” said a slightly singsong voice , and with a slight shock , Harry saw the same small , tufty haired wizard who had presided at Dumbledore’s funeral , now standing in front of Bill and Fleur .
 “ We are gathered here today to celebrate the union of two faithful souls ” “ Yes , my tiara sets off the whole thing nicely , ” said Auntie Muriel in a rather carrying whisper .
 “ But I must say , Ginevra’s dress is far too low cut . ”
 Ginny glanced around , grinning , winked at Harry , then quickly faced the front again .
 Harry’s mind wandered a long way from the marquee , back to afternoons spent alone with Ginny in lonely parts of the school grounds .
 They seemed so long ago they had always seemed too good to be true , as though he had been stealing shining hours from a normal person’s life , a person without a lightning shaped scar on his forehead .
 “ Do you , William Arthur , take Fleur Isabelle ? ”
 In the front row , Mrs Weasley and Madame Delacour were both sobbing quietly into scraps of lace .
 Trumpetlike sounds from the back of the marquee told everyone that Hagrid had taken out one of his own tablecloth sized handkerchiefs .
 Hermione turned and beamed at Harry her eyes too were full of tears . “
 then I declare you bonded for life . ”
 The tufty haired wizard waved his wand high over the heads of Bill and Fleur and a shower of silver stars fell upon them , spiraling around their now entwined figures .
 As Fred and George led a round of applause , the golden balloons overhead burst : Birds of paradise and tiny golden bells flew and floated out of them , adding their songs and chimes to the din .
 “ Ladies and gentlemen ! ”
 called the tufty haired wizard .
 “ If you would please stand up ! ”
 They all did so , Auntie Muriel grumbling audibly he waved his wand again .
 The seats on which they had been sitting rose gracefully into the air as the canvas walls of the marquee vanished , so that they stood beneath a canopy supported by golden poles , with a glorious view of the sunlit orchard and surrounding countryside .
 Next , a pool of molten gold spread from the center of the tent to form a gleaming dance floor the hovering chairs grouped themselves around small , white clothed tables , which all floated gracefully back to earth around it , and the golden jacketed band trooped toward a podium .
 “ Smooth , ” said Ron approvingly as the waiters popped up on all sides , some bearing silver trays of pumpkin juice , butterbeer , and firewhisky , others tottering piles of tarts and sandwiches .
 “ We should go and congratulate them ! ”
 said Hermione , standing on tiptoe to see the place where Bill and Fleur had vanished amid a crowd of well wishers .
 “ Well have time later , ” shrugged Ron , snatching three butter beers from a passing tray and handing one to Harry .
 “ Hermione , cop hold , let’s grab a table .
 Not there !
 Nowhere near Muriel ” Ron led the way across the empty dance floor , glancing left and right as he went : Harry felt sure that he was keeping an eye out for Krum .
 By the time they had reached the other side of the marquee , most of the tables were occupied : The emptiest was the one where Luna sat alone .
 “ All right if we join you ? ”
 asked Ron .
 “ Oh yes , ” she said happily .
 “ Daddy’s just gone to give Bill and Fleur our present . ”
 “ What is it , a lifetime’s supply of Gurdyroots ? ”
 asked Ron .
 Hermione aimed a kick at him under the table , but caught Harry instead .
 Eyes watering in pain , Harry lost track of the conversation for a few moments .
 The band had begun to play .
 Bill and Fleur took to the dance floor first , to great applause after a while , Mr Weasley led Madame Delacour onto the floor , followed by Mrs Weasley and Fleur’s father .
 “ I like this song , ” said Luna , swaying in time to the waltzlike tune , and a few seconds later she stood up and glided onto the dance floor , where she revolved on the spot , quite alone , eyes closed and waving her arms .
 “ She’s great , isn’t she ? ”
 said Ron admiringly .
 “ Always good value . ”
 But the smile vanished from his face at once : Viktor Krum had dropped into Luna’s vacant seat .
 Hermione looked pleasurably flustered , but this time Krum had not come to compliment her .
 With a scowl on his face he said , “ Who is that man in the yellow ? ”
 “ That’s Xenophilius Lovegood , he’s the father of a friend of ours , ” said Ron .
 His pugnacious tone indicated that they were not about to laugh at Xenophilius , despite the clear provocation .
 “ Come and dance , ” he added abruptly to Hermione .
 She looked taken aback , but pleased too , and got up .
 They vanished together into the growing throng on the dance floor .
 “ Ah , they are together now ? ”
 asked Krum , momentarily distracted .
 “ Er sort of , ” said Harry .
 “ Who are you ? ”
 Krum asked .
 “ Barny Weasley . ”
 They shook hands .
 “ You , Barny you know this man Lovegood veil ? ”
 “ No , I only met him today .
 Why ? ”
 Krum glowered over the top of his drink , watching Xenophilius , who was chatting to several warlocks on the other side of the dance floor .
 “ Because , ” said Krum , “ if he vos not a guest of Fleur’s , I vould duel him , here and now , for vearing that filthy sign upon his chest . ”
 “ Sign ? ”
 said Harry , looking over at Xenophilius too .
 The strange triangular eye was gleaming on his chest .
 “ Why ?
 What’s wrong with it ? ”
 “ Grindelvald .
 That is Grindelvald’s sign . ”
 “ Grindelwald the Dark wizard Dumbledore defeated ? ”
 “ Exactly . ”
 Krum’s jaw muscles worked as if he were chewing , then he said , “ Grindelvald killed many people , my grandfather , for instance .
 Of course , he vos never poverful in this country , they said he feared Dumbledore and rightly , seeing how he vos finished .
 But this ” he pointed a finger at Xenophilius “ this is his symbol , I recognized it at vunce : Grindelvald carved it into a vail at Durmstrang ven he vos a pupil there .
 Some idiots copied it onto their books and clothes , thinking to shock , make themselves impressive until those of us who had lost family members to Grindelvald taught them better . ”
 Krum cracked his knuckles menacingly and glowered at Xenophilius .
 Harry felt perplexed .
 It seemed incredibly unlikely that Luna’s father was a supporter of the Dark Arts , and nobody else in the tent seemed to have recognized the triangular , runelike shape .
 “ Are you er quite sure it’s Grindelwald’s ? ”
 “ I am not mistaken , ” said Krum coldly .
 “ I valked past that sign for several years , I know it veil . ”
 “ Well , there’s a chance , ” said Harry , “ that Xenophilius doesn’t actually know what the symbol means .
 The Lovegoods are quite unusual .
 He could easily have picked it up somewhere and think it’s a cross section of the head of a Crumple Horned Snorkack or something . ”
 “ The cross section of a vot ? ”
 “ Well , I don’t know what they are , but apparently he and his daughter go on holiday looking for them . ”
 Harry felt he was doing a bad job explaining Luna and her father .
 “ That’s her , ” he said , pointing at Luna , who was still dancing alone , waving her arms around her head like someone attempting to beat off midges .
 “ Vy is she doing that ? ”
 asked Krum .
 “ Probably trying to get rid of a Wrackspurt , ” said Harry , who recognized the symptoms .
 Krum did not seem to know whether or not Harry was making fun of him .
 He drew his wand from inside his robes and tapped it menacingly on his thigh sparks flew out of the end .
 “ Gregorovitch ! ”
 said Harry loudly , and Krum started , but Harry was too excited to care the memory had come back to him at the sight of Krum’s wand : Ollivander taking it and examining it carefully before the Triwizard Tournament .
 “ Vot about him ? ”
 asked Krum suspiciously .
 “ He’s a wandmaker ! ”
 “ I know that , ” said Krum .
 “ He made your wand !
 That’s why I thought Quidditch ” Krum was looking more and more suspicious .
 “ How do you know Gregorovitch made my vand ? ”
 “ I I read it somewhere , I think , ” said Harry .
 “ In a a fan magazine , ” he improvised wildly and Krum looked mollified .
 “ I had not realized I ever discussed my vand with fans , ” he said .
 “ So er where is Gregorovitch these days ? ”
 Krum looked puzzled .
 “ He retired several years ago .
 I vos one of the last to purchase a Gregorovitch vand .
 They are the best although I know , of course , that you Britons set much store by Ollivander . ”
 Harry did not answer .
 He pretended to watch the dancers , like Krum , but he was thinking hard .
 So Voldemort was looking for a celebrated wandmaker , and Harry did not have to search far for a reason : It was surely because of what Harry’s wand had done on the night that Voldemort had pursued him across the skies .
 The holly and phoenix feather wand had conquered the borrowed wand , something that Ollivander had not anticipated or understood .
 Would Gregorovitch know better ?
 Was he truly more skilled than Ollivander , did he know secrets of wands that Ollivander did not ?
 “ This girl is very nice looking , ” Krum said , recalling Harry to his surroundings .
 Krum was pointing at Ginny , who had just joined Luna .
 “ She is also a relative of yours ? ”
 “ Yeah , ” said Harry , suddenly irritated , “ and she’s seeing someone .
 Jealous type .
 Big bloke .
 You wouldn’t want to cross him . ”
 Krum grunted .
 “ Vot , ” he said , draining his goblet and getting to his feet again , “ is the point of being an international Quidditch player if all the good looking girls are taken ? ”
 And he strode off , leaving Harry to take a sandwich from a passing waiter and make his way around the edge of the crowded dance floor .
 He wanted to find Ron , to tell him about Gregorovitch , but Ron was dancing with Hermione out in the middle of the floor .
 Harry leaned up against one of the golden pillars and watched Ginny , who was now dancing with Fred and George’s friend Lee Jordan , trying not to feel resentful about the promise he had given Ron .
 He had never been to a wedding before , so he could not judge how Wizarding celebrations differed from Muggle ones , though he was pretty sure that the latter would not involve a wedding cake topped with two model phoenixes that took flight when the cake was cut , or bottles of champagne that floated unsupported through the crowd .
 As evening drew in , and moths began to swoop under the canopy , now lit with floating golden lanterns , the revelry became more and more uncontained .
 Fred and George had long since disappeared into the darkness with a pair of Fleur’s cousins Charlie , Hagrid , and a squat wizard in a purple porkpie hat were singing “ Odo the Hero ” in a corner .
 Wandering through the crowd so as to escape a drunken uncle of Ron’s who seemed unsure whether or not Harry was his son , Harry spotted an old wizard sitting alone at a table .
 His cloud of white hair made him look rather like an aged dandelion clock and was topped by a moth eaten fez .
 He was vaguely familiar : Racking his brains , Harry suddenly realized that this was Elphias Doge , member of the Order of the Phoenix and the writer of Dumbledore’s obituary .
 Harry approached him .
 “ May I sit down ? ”
 “ Of course , of course , ” said Doge he had a rather high pitched , wheezy voice .
 Harry leaned in .
 “ Mr Doge , I’m Harry Potter . ”
 Doge gasped .
 “ My dear boy !
 Arthur told me you were here , disguised .
 I am so glad , so honored ! ”
 In a flutter of nervous pleasure Doge poured Harry a goblet of champagne .
 “ I thought of writing to you , ” he whispered , “ after Dumbledore the shock and for you , I am sure Doge’s tiny eyes filled with sudden tears .
 “ I saw the obituary you wrote for the Daily Prophet , ” said Harry .
 “ I didn’t realize you knew Professor Dumbledore so well . ”
 “ As well as anyone , ” said Doge , dabbing his eyes with a napkin .
 “ Certainly I knew him longest , if you don’t count Aberforth and somehow , people never do seem to count Aberforth . ”
 “ Speaking of the Daily Prophet I don’t know whether you saw , Mr Doge ? ”
 “ Oh , please call me Elphias , dear boy . ”
 “ Elphias , I don’t know whether you saw the interview Rita Skeeter gave about Dumbledore ? ”
 Doge’s face flooded with angry color .
 “ Oh yes , Harry , I saw it .
 That woman , or vulture might be a more accurate term , positively pestered me to talk to her .
 I am ashamed to say that I became rather rude , called her an interfering trout , which resulted , as you may have seen , in aspersions cast upon my sanity . ”
 “ Well , in that interview , ” Harry went on , “ Rita Skeeter hinted that Professor Dumbledore was involved in the Dark Arts when he was young . ”
 “ Don’t believe a word of it ! ”
 said Doge at once .
 “ Not a word , Harry !
 Let nothing tarnish your memories of Albus Dumbledore ! ”
 Harry looked into Doge’s earnest , pained face and felt , not reassured , but frustrated .
 Did Doge really think it was that easy , that Harry could simply choose not to believe ?
 Didn’t Doge understand Harry’s need to be sure , to know everything ?
 Perhaps Doge suspected Harry’s feelings , for he looked concerned and hurried on , “ Harry , Rita Skeeter is a dreadful ” But he was interrupted by a shrill cackle .
 “ Rita Skeeter ?
 Oh , I love her , always read her ! ”
 Harry and Doge looked up to see Auntie Muriel standing there , the plumes dancing on her hat , a goblet of champagne in her hand .
 “ She’s written a book about Dumbledore , you know ! ”
 “ Hello , Muriel , ” said Doge .
 “ Yes , we were just discussing ” “ You there !
 Give me your chair , I’m a hundred and seven ! ”
 Another redheaded Weasley cousin jumped off his seat , looking alarmed , and Auntie Muriel swung it around with surprising strength and plopped herself down upon it between Doge and Harry .
 “ Hello again , Barry , or whatever your name is , ” she said to Harry .
 “ Now , what were you saying about Rita Skeeter , Elphias ?
 You know she’s written a biography of Dumbledore ?
 I can’t wait to read it , I must remember to place an order at Flourish and Blotts ! ”
 Doge looked stiff and solemn at this , but Auntie Muriel drained her goblet and clicked her bony fingers at a passing waiter for a replacement .
 She took another large gulp of champagne , belched , and then said , “ There’s no need to look like a pair of stuffed frogs !
 Before he became so respected and respectable and all that tosh , there were some mighty funny rumors about Albus ! ”
 “ Ill informed sniping , ” said Doge , turning radish colored again .
 “ You would say that , Elphias , ” cackled Auntie Muriel .
 “ I noticed how you skated over the sticky patches in that obituary of yours ! ”
 “ I’m sorry you think so , ” said Doge , more coldly still .
 “ I assure you I was writing from the heart . ”
 “ Oh , we all know you worshipped Dumbledore I daresay you’ll still think he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did away with his Squib sister ! ”
 “ Muriell ” exclaimed Doge .
 A chill that had nothing to do with the iced champagne was stealing through Harry’s chest .
 “ What do you mean ? ”
 he asked Muriel .
 “ Who said his sister was a Squib ?
 I thought she was ill ? ”
 “ Thought wrong , then , didn’t you , Barry ! ”
 said Auntie Muriel , looking delighted at the effect she had produced .
 “ Anyway , how could you expect to know anything about it ?
 It all happened years and years before you were even thought of , my dear , and the truth is that those of us who were alive then never knew what really happened .
 That’s why I can’t wait to find out what Skeeter’s unearthed !
 Dumbledore kept that sister of his quiet for a long time ! ”
 “ Untrue ! ”
 wheezed Doge .
 “ Absolutely untrue ! ”
 “ He never told me his sister was a Squib , ” said Harry , without thinking , still cold inside .
 “ And why on earth would he tell you ? ”
 screeched Muriel , swaying a little in her seat as she attempted to focus upon Harry .
 “ The reason Albus never spoke about Ariana , ” began Elphias in a voice stiff with emotion , “ is , I should have thought , quite clear .
 He was so devastated by her death ” “ Why did nobody ever see her , Elphias ? ”
 squawked Muriel .
 “ Why did half of us never even know she existed , until they carried the coffin out of the house and held a funeral for her ?
 Where was saintly Albus while Ariana was locked in the cellar ?
 Off being brilliant at Hogwarts , and never mind what was going on in his own house ! ”
 “ What d’you mean , locked in the cellar ? ”
 asked Harry .
 “ What is this ? ”
 Doge looked wretched .
 Auntie Muriel cackled again and answered Harry .
 “ Dumbledore’s mother was a terrifying woman , simply terrifying .
 Muggle born , though I heard she pretended otherwise ” “ She never pretended anything of the sort !
 Kendra was a fine woman , ” whispered Doge miserably , but Auntie Muriel ignored him .
 “ proud and very domineering , the sort of witch who would have been mortified to produce a Squib ” “ Ariana was not a Squib ! ”
 wheezed Doge .
 “ So you say , Elphias , but explain , then , why she never attended Hogwarts ! ”
 said Auntie Muriel .
 She turned back to Harry .
 “ In our day , Squibs were often hushed up , though to take it to the extreme of actually imprisoning a little girl in the house and pretending she didn’t exist ” “ I tell you , that’s not what happened ! ”
 said Doge , but Auntie Muriel steamrollered on , still addressing Harry .
 “ Squibs were usually shipped off to Muggle schools and encouraged to integrate into the Muggle community much kinder than trying to find them a place in the Wizarding world , where they must always be second class but naturally Kendra Dumbledore wouldn’t have dreamed of letting her daughter go to a Muggle school ” “ Ariana was delicate ! ”
 said Doge desperately .
 “ Her health was always too poor to permit her ” “ to permit her to leave the house ? ”
 cackled Muriel .
 “ And yet she was never taken to St .
 Mungo’s and no Healer was ever summoned to see her ! ”
 “ Really , Muriel , how you can possibly know whether “ For your information , Elphias , my cousin Lancelot was a Healer at St .
 Mungo’s at the time , and he told my family in strictest confidence that Ariana had never been seen there .
 All most suspicious , Lancelot thought ! ”
 Doge looked to be on the verge of tears .
 Auntie Muriel , who seemed to be enjoying herself hugely , snapped her fingers for more champagne .
 Numbly Harry thought of how the Dursleys had once shut him up , locked him away , kept him out of sight , all for the crime of being a wizard .
 Had Dumbledore’s sister suffered the same fate in reverse : imprisoned for her lack of magic ?
 And had Dumbledore truly left her to her fate while he went off to Hogwarts , to prove himself brilliant and talented ?
 “ Now , if Kendra hadn’t died first , ” Muriel resumed , “ I’d have said that it was she who finished off Ariana “ How can you , Muriel ? ”
 groaned Doge .
 “ A mother kill her own daughter ?
 Think what you are saying ! ”
 “ If the mother in question was capable of imprisoning her daughter for years on end , why not ? ”
 shrugged Auntie Muriel .
 “ But as I say , it doesn’t fit , because Kendra died before Ariana of what , nobody ever seemed sure ” “ Oh , no doubt Ariana murdered her , ” said Doge with a brave attempt at scorn .
 “ Why not ? ”
 “ Yes , Ariana might have made a desperate bid for freedom and killed Kendra in the struggle , ” said Auntie Muriel thoughtfully .
 “ Shake your head all you like , Elphias !
 You were at Ariana’s funeral , were you not ? ”
 “ Yes I was , ” said Doge , through trembling lips .
 “ And a more desperately sad occasion I cannot remember .
 Albus was heartbroken ” “ His heart wasn’t the only thing .
 Didn’t Aberforth break Albus ’ s nose halfway through the service ? ”
 If Doge had looked horrified before this , it was nothing to how he looked now .
 Muriel might have stabbed him .
 She cackled loudly and took another swig of champagne , which dribbled down her chin .
 “ How do you ? ”
 croaked Doge .
 “ My mother was friendly with old Bathilda Bagshot , ” said Auntie Muriel happily .
 “ Bathilda described the whole thing to Mother while I was listening at the door .
 A coffin side brawl !
 The way Bathilda told it , Aberforth shouted that it was all Albus ’ s fault that Ariana was dead and then punched him in the face .
 According to Bathilda , Albus did not even defend himself , and that’s odd enough in itself , Albus could have destroyed Aberforth in a duel with both hands tied behind his back . ”
 Muriel swigged yet more champagne .
 The recitation of these old scandals seemed to elate her as much as they horrified Doge .
 Harry did not know what to think , what to believe : He wanted the truth , and yet all Doge did was sit there and bleat feebly that Ariana had been ill .
 Harry could hardly believe that Dumbledore would not have intervened if such cruelty was happening inside his own house , and yet there was undoubtedly something odd about the story .
 “ And I’ll tell you something else , ” Muriel said , hiccuping slightly as she lowered her goblet .
 “ I think Bathilda has spilled the beans to Rita Skeeter .
 All those hints in Skeeter’s interview about an important source close to the Dumbledores goodness knows she was there all through the Ariana business , and it would fit ! ”
 “ Bathilda would never talk to Rita Skeeter ! ”
 whispered Doge .
 “ Bathilda Bagshot ? ”
 Harry said .
 “ The author of A History of Magic ? ”
 The name was printed on the front of one of Harry’s textbooks , though admittedly not one of the ones he had read most attentively .
 “ Yes , ” said Doge , clutching at Harry’s question like a drowning man at a life belt .
 “ A most gifted magical historian and an old friend of Albus’s . ”
 “ Quite gaga these days , I’ve heard , ” said Auntie Muriel cheerfully .
 “ If that is so , it is even more dishonorable for Skeeter to have taken advantage of her , ” said Doge , “ and no reliance can be placed on anything Bathilda may have said ! ”
 “ Oh , there are ways of bringing back memories , and I’m sure Rita Skeeter knows them all , ” said Auntie Muriel .
 “ But even if Bathilda’s completely cuckoo , I’m sure she’d still have old photographs , maybe even letters .
 She knew the Dumbledores for years .
 Well worth a trip to Godric’s Hollow , I’d have thought . ”
 Harry , who had been taking a sip of butterbeer , choked .
 Doge banged him on the back as Harry coughed , looking at Auntie Muriel through streaming eyes .
 Once he had control of his voice again , he asked , “ Bathilda Bagshot lives in Godric’s Hollow ? ”
 “ Oh yes , she’s been there forever !
 The Dumbledores moved there after Percival was imprisoned , and she was their neighbor . ”
 “ The Dumbledores lived in Godric’s Hollow ? ”
 “ Yes , Barry , that’s what I just said , ” said Auntie Muriel testily .
 Harry felt drained , empty .
 Never once , in six years , had Dumbledore told Harry that they had both lived and lost loved ones in Godric’s Hollow .
 Why ?
 Were Lily and James buried close to Dumbledore ’ s mother and sister ?
 Had Dumbledore visited their graves , perhaps walked past Lily’s and James’s to do so ?
 And he had never once told Harry never bothered to say And why it was so important , Harry could not explain even to himself , yet he felt it had been tantamount to a lie not to tell him that they had this place and these experiences in common .
 He stared ahead of him , barely noticing what was going on around him , and did not realize that Hermione had appeared out of the crowd until she drew up a chair beside him .
 “ I simply can’t dance anymore , ” she panted , slipping off one of her shoes and rubbing the sole of her foot .
 “ Ron’s gone looking to find more butterbeers .
 It’s a bit odd , I’ve just seen Viktor storming away from Luna’s father , it looked like they’d been arguing ” She dropped her voice , staring at him .
 “ Harry , are you okay ? ”
 Harry did not know where to begin , but it did not matter .
 At that moment , something large and silver came falling through the canopy over the dance floor .
 Graceful and gleaming , the lynx landed lightly in the middle of the astonished dancers .
 Heads turned , as those nearest it froze absurdly in mid dance .
 Then the Patronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the loud , deep , slow voice of Kingsley Shacklebolt .
 “ The Ministry has fallen .
 Scrimgeour is dead .
 They are coming . ”
 A PLACE TO HIDE Everything seemed fuzzy , slow .
 Harry and Hermione jumped to their feet and drew their wands .
 Many people were only just realizing that something strange had happened heads were still turning toward the silver cat as it vanished .
 Silence spread outward in cold ripples from the place where the Patronus had landed .
 Then somebody screamed .
 Harry and Hermione threw themselves into the panicking crowd .
 Guests were sprinting in all directions many were Disapparating the protective enchantments around the Burrow had broken .
 “ Ron ! ”
 Hermione cried .
 “ Ron , where are you ? ”
 As they pushed their way across the dance floor , Harry saw cloaked and masked figures appearing in the crowd then he saw Lupin and Tonks , their wands raised , and heard both of them shout , “ Protego ” , a cry that was echoed on all sides “ Ron !
 Ron ! ”
 Hermione called , half sobbing as she and Harry were buffeted by terrified guests : Harry seized her hand to make sure they weren’t separated as a streak of light whizzed over their heads , whether a protective charm or something more sinister he did not know And then Ron was there .
 He caught hold of Hermione ’ s free arm , and Harry felt her turn on the spot sight and sound were extinguished as darkness pressed in upon him all he could feel was Hermione’s hand as he was squeezed through space and time , away from the Burrow , away from the descending Death Eaters , away , perhaps , from Voldemort himself .
 “ Where are we ? ”
 said Ron’s voice .
 Harry opened his eyes .
 For a moment he thought they had not left the wedding after all : They still seemed to be surrounded by people .
 “ Tottenham Court Road , ” panted Hermione .
 “ Walk , just walk , we need to find somewhere for you to change . ”
 Harry did as she asked .
 They half walked , half ran up the wide dark street thronged with late night revelers and lined with closed shops , stars twinkling above them .
 A double decker bus rumbled by and a group of merry pub goers ogled them as they passed Harry and Ron were still wearing dress robes .
 “ Hermione , we haven’t got anything to change into , ” Ron told her , as a young woman burst into raucous giggles at the sight of him .
 “ Why didn’t I make sure I had the Invisibility Cloak with me ? ”
 said Harry , inwardly cursing his own stupidity .
 “ All last year I kept it on me and ” “ It’s okay , I’ve got the Cloak , I’ve got clothes for both of you , ” said Hermione .
 “ Just try and act naturally until this will do . ”
 She led them down a side street , then into the shelter of a shadowy alleyway .
 “ When you say you’ve got the Cloak , and clothes ” said Harry , frowning at Hermione , who was carrying nothing except her small beaded handbag , in which she was now rummaging .
 “ Yes , they’re here , ” said Hermione , and to Harry and Ron’s utter astonishment , she pulled out a pair of jeans , a sweatshirt , some maroon socks , and finally the silvery Invisibility Cloak .
 “ How the ruddy hell ? ”
 “ Undetectable Extension Charm , ” said Hermione .
 “ Tricky , but I think I’ve done it okay anyway , I managed to fit everything we need in here . ”
 She gave the fragile looking bag a little shake and it echoed like a cargo hold as a number of heavy objects rolled around inside it .
 “ Oh , damn , that’ll be the books , ” she said , peering into it , “ and I had them all stacked by subject .
 Oh well .
 Harry , you’d better take the Invisibility Cloak .
 Ron , hurry up and change . ”
 “ When did you do all this ? ”
 Harry asked as Ron stripped off his robes .
 “ I told you at the Burrow , I’ve had the essentials packed for days , you know , in case we needed to make a quick getaway .
 I packed your rucksack this morning , Harry , after you changed , and put it in here .
 I just had a feeling . ”
 “ You’re amazing , you are , ” said Ron , handing her his bundled up robes .
 “ Thank you , ” said Hermione , managing a small smile as she pushed the robes into the bag .
 “ Please , Harry , get that Cloak on ! ”
 Harry threw the Invisibility Cloak around his shoulders and pulled it up over his head , vanishing from sight .
 He was only just beginning to appreciate what had happened .
 “ The others everyone at the wedding ” “ We can’t worry about that now , ” whispered Hermione .
 “ It’s you they’re after , Harry , and we’ll just put everyone in even more danger by going back . ”
 “ She’s right , ” said Ron , who seemed to know that Harry was about to argue , even if he could not see his face .
 “ Most of the Order was there , they’ll look after everyone . ”
 Harry nodded , then remembered that they could not see him , and said , “ Yeah . ”
 But he thought of Ginny , and fear bubbled like acid in his stomach .
 “ Come on , I think we ought to keep moving , ” said Hermione .
 They moved back up the side street and onto the main road again , where a group of men on the opposite side was singing and weaving across the pavement .
 “ Just as a matter of interest , why Tottenham Court Road ? ”
 Ron asked Hermione .
 “ I’ve no idea , it just popped into my head , but I’m sure we’re safer out in the Muggle world , it’s not where they’ll expect us to be . ”
 “ True , ” said Ron , looking around , “ but don’t you feel a bit exposed ? ”
 “ Where else is there ? ”
 asked Hermione , cringing as the men on the other side of the road started wolf whistling at her .
 “ We can hardly book rooms at the Leaky Cauldron , can we ?
 And Grimmauld Place is out if Snape can get in there .
 I suppose we could try my parents ’ house , though I think there’s a chance they might check there .
 Oh , I wish they’d shut up ! ”
 “ All right , darling ? ”
 the drunkest of the men on the other pavement was yelling .
 “ Fancy a drink ?
 Ditch ginger and come and have a pint ! ”
 “ Let’s sit down somewhere , ” Hermione said hastily as Ron opened his mouth to shout back across the road .
 “ Look , this will do , in here ! ”
 It was a small and shabby all night cafe .
 A light layer of grease lay on all the Formica topped tables , but it was at least empty .
 Harry slipped into a booth first and Ron sat next to him opposite Hermione , who had her back to the entrance and did not like it : She glanced over her shoulder so frequently she appeared to have a twitch .
 Harry did not like being stationary walking had given the illusion that they had a goal .
 Beneath the Cloak he could feel the last vestiges of Polyjuice leaving him , his hands returning to their usual length and shape .
 He pulled his glasses out of his pocket and put them on again .
 After a minute or two , Ron said , “ You know , we’re not far from the Leaky Cauldron here , it’s only in Charing Cross ” “ Ron , we can’t ! ”
 said Hermione at once .
 “ Not to stay there , but to find out what’s going on ! ”
 “ We know what’s going on !
 Voldemort’s taken over the Ministry , what else do we need to know ? ”
 “ Okay , okay , it was just an idea ! ”
 They relapsed into a prickly silence .
 The gum chewing waitress shuffled over and Hermione ordered two cappuccinos : As Harry was invisible , it would have looked odd to order him one .
 A pair of burly workmen entered the cafe and squeezed into the next booth .
 Hermione dropped her voice to a whisper .
 “ I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head for the countryside .
 Once we’re there , we could send a message to the Order . ”
 “ Can you do that talking Patronus thing , then ? ”
 asked Ron .
 “ I’ve been practicing and I think so , ” said Hermione .
 “ Well , as long as it doesn’t get them into trouble , though they might’ve been arrested already .
 God , that’s revolting , ” Ron added after one sip of the foamy , grayish coffee .
 The waitress had heard she shot Ron a nasty look as she shuffled off to take the new customers ’ orders .
 The larger of the two workmen , who was blond and quite huge , now that Harry came to look at him , waved her away .
 She stared , affronted .
 “ Let’s get going , then , I don’t want to drink this muck , ” said Ron .
 “ Hermione , have you got Muggle money to pay for this ? ”
 “ Yes , I took out all my Building Society savings before I came to the Burrow .
 I’ll bet all the change is at the bottom , ” sighed Hermione , reaching for her beaded bag .
 The two workmen made identical movements , and Harry mirrored them without conscious thought : All three of them drew their wands .
 Ron , a few seconds late in realizing what was going on , lunged across the table , pushing Hermione sideways onto her bench .
 The force of the Death Eaters ’ spells shattered the tiled wall where Ron’s head had just been , as Harry , still invisible , yelled , “ Stupefyl ” The great blond Death Eater was hit in the face by a jet of red light : He slumped sideways , unconscious .
 His companion , unable to see who had cast the spell , fired another at Ron : Shining black ropes flew from his wand tip and bound Ron head to foot the waitress screamed and ran for the door Harry sent another Stunning Spell at the Death Eater with the twisted face who had tied up Ron , but the spell missed , rebounded on the window , and hit the waitress , who collapsed in front of the door .
 “ Expulsol ” bellowed the Death Eater , and the table behind which Harry was standing blew up : The force of the explosion slammed him into the wall and he felt his wand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him .
 “ Petrificus TotalusV ’ screamed Hermione from out of sight , and the Death Eater fell forward like a statue to land with a crunching thud on the mess of broken china , table , and coffee .
 Hermione crawled out from underneath the bench , shaking bits of glass ashtray out of her hair and trembling all over .
 “ D diffindo , ” she said , pointing her wand at Ron , who roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his jeans , leaving a deep cut .
 “ Oh , I’m so sorry , Ron , my hand’s shaking !
 Diffindol ” The severed ropes fell away .
 Ron got to his feet , shaking his arms to regain feeling in them .
 Harry picked up his wand and climbed over all the debris to where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled across the bench .
 “ I should’ve recognized him , he was there the night Dumbledore died , ” he said .
 He turned over the darker Death Eater with his foot the man’s eyes moved rapidly between Harry , Ron , and Hermione .
 “ That’s Dolohov , ” said Ron .
 “ I recognize him from the old wanted posters .
 I think the big one’s Thorfinn Rowle . ”
 “ Never mind what they’re called ! ”
 said Hermione a little hysterically .
 “ How did they find us ?
 What are we going to do ? ”
 Somehow her panic seemed to clear Harry’s head .
 “ Lock the door , ” he told her , “ and Ron , turn out the lights . ”
 He looked down at the paralyzed Dolohov , thinking fast as the lock clicked and Ron used the Deluminator to plunge the cafe into darkness .
 Harry could hear the men who had jeered at Hermione earlier , yelling at another girl in the distance .
 “ What are we going to do with them ? ”
 Ron whispered to Harry through the dark then , even more quietly , “ Kill them ?
 They’d kill us .
 They had a good go just now . ”
 Hermione shuddered and took a step backward .
 Harry shook his head .
 “ We just need to wipe their memories , ” said Harry .
 “ It’s better like that , it’ll throw them off the scent .
 If we killed them it’d be obvious we were here . ”
 “ You’re the boss , ” said Ron , sounding profoundly relieved .
 “ But I’ve never done a Memory Charm . ”
 “ Nor have I , ” said Hermione , “ but I know the theory . ”
 She took a deep , calming breath , then pointed her wand at Dolohov’s forehead and said , “ Obliviate . ”
 At once , Dolohov’s eyes became unfocused and dreamy .
 “ Brilliant ! ”
 said Harry , clapping her on the back .
 “ Take care of the other one and the waitress while Ron and I clear up . ”
 “ Clear up ? ”
 said Ron , looking around at the partly destroyed cafe .
 “ Why ? ”
 “ Don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened if they wake up and find themselves in a place that looks like it’s just been bombed ? ”
 “ Oh right , yeah ” Ron struggled for a moment before managing to extract his wand from his pocket .
 “ It’s no wonder I can’t get it out , Hermione , you packed my old jeans , they’re tight . ”
 “ Oh , I’m so sorry , ” hissed Hermione , and as she dragged the waitress out of sight of the windows , Harry heard her mutter a suggestion as to where Ron could stick his wand instead .
 Once the cafe was restored to its previous condition , they heaved the Death Eaters back into their booth and propped them up facing each other .
 “ But how did they find us ? ”
 Hermione asked , looking from one inert man to the other .
 “ How did they know where we were ? ”
 She turned to Harry .
 “ You you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you , do you , Harry ? ”
 “ He can’t have , ” said Ron .
 “ The Trace breaks at seventeen , that’s Wizarding law , you can’t put it on an adult . ”
 “ As far as you know , ” said Hermione .
 “ What if the Death Eaters have found a way to put it on a seventeen year old ? ”
 “ But Harry hasn’t been near a Death Eater in the last twenty four hours .
 Who’s supposed to have put a Trace back on him ? ”
 Hermione did not reply .
 Harry felt contaminated , tainted : Was that really how the Death Eaters had found them ?
 “ If I can’t use magic , and you can’t use magic near me , without us giving away our position ” he began .
 “ We’re not splitting up ! ”
 said Hermione firmly .
 “ We need a safe place to hide , ” said Ron .
 “ Give us time to think things through . ”
 “ Grimmauld Place , ” said Harry .
 The other two gaped .
 “ Don’t be silly , Harry , Snape can get in there ! ”
 “ Ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinxes against him and even if they haven’t worked , ” he pressed on as Hermione began to argue , “ so what ?
 I swear , I’d like nothing better than to meet Snape ! ”
 “ But ” “ Hermione , where else is there ?
 It’s the best chance we’ve got .
 Snape’s only one Death Eater .
 If I’ve still got the Trace on me , we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wherever else we go . ”
 She could not argue , though she looked as if she would have liked to .
 While she unlocked the cafe door , Ron clicked the Deluminator to release the cafe’s light .
 Then , on Harry’s count of three , they reversed the spells upon their three victims , and before the waitress or either of the Death Eaters could do more than stir sleepily , Harry , Ron , and Hermione had turned on the spot and vanished into the compressing darkness once more .
 Seconds later Harry’s lungs expanded gratefully and he opened his eyes : They were now standing in the middle of a familiar small and shabby square .
 Tall , dilapidated houses looked down on them from every side .
 Number twelve was visible to them , for they had been told of its existence by Dumbledore , its Secret Keeper , and they rushed toward it , checking every few yards that they were not being followed or observed .
 They raced up the stone steps , and Harry tapped the front door once with his wand .
 They heard a series of metallic clicks and the clatter of a chain , then the door swung open with a creak and they hurried over the threshold .
 As Harry closed the door behind them , the old fashioned gas lamps sprang into life , casting flickering light along the length of the hallway .
 It looked just as Harry remembered it : eerie , cobwebbed , the outlines of the house elf heads on the wall throwing odd shadows up the staircase .
 Long dark curtains concealed the portrait of Sirius’s mother .
 The only thing that was out of place was the troll’s leg umbrella stand , which was lying on its side as if Tonks had just knocked it over again .
 “ I think somebody’s been in here , ” Hermione whispered , pointing toward it .
 “ That could’ve happened as the Order left , ” Ron murmured back .
 “ So where are these jinxes they put up against Snape ? ”
 Harry asked .
 “ Maybe they’re only activated if he shows up ? ”
 suggested Ron .
 Yet they remained close together on the doormat , backs against the door , scared to move farther into the house .
 “ Well , we can’t stay here forever , ” said Harry , and he took a step forward .
 “ Severus Snape ? ”
 Mad Eye Moody’s voice whispered out of the darkness , making all three of them jump back in fright .
 “ We’re not Snape ! ”
 croaked Harry , before something whooshed over him like cold air and his tongue curled backward on itself , making it impossible to speak .
 Before he had time to feel inside his mouth , however , his tongue had unraveled again .
 The other two seemed to have experienced the same unpleasant sensation .
 Ron was making retching noises Hermione stammered , “ That m must have b been the T Tongue Tying Curse Mad Eye set up for Snape ! ”
 Gingerly Harry took another step forward .
 Something shifted in the shadows at the end of the hall , and before any of them could say another word , a figure had risen up out of the carpet , tall , dust colored , and terrible : Hermione screamed and so did Mrs Black , her curtains flying open the gray figure was gliding toward them , faster and faster , its waist length hair and beard streaming behind it , its face sunken , fleshless , with empty eye sockets : Horribly familiar , dreadfully altered , it raised a wasted arm , pointing at Harry .
 “ No ! ”
 Harry shouted , and though he had raised his wand no spell occurred to him .
 “ No !
 It wasn’t us !
 We didn’t kill you ” On the word kill , the figure exploded in a great cloud of dust : Coughing , his eyes watering , Harry looked around to see Hermione crouched on the floor by the door with her arms over her head , and Ron , who was shaking from head to foot , patting her clumsily on the shoulder and saying , “ It’s all r right .
 It’s g gone . ”
 Dust swirled around Harry like mist , catching the blue gaslight , as Mrs Black continued to scream .
 “ Mudbloods , filth , stains of dishonor , taint of shame on the house of my fathers ” “ SHUT UP ! ”
 Harry bellowed , directing his wand at her , and with a bang and a burst of red sparks , the curtains swung shut again , silencing her .
 “ That that was ” Hermione whimpered , as Ron helped her to her feet .
 “ Yeah , ” said Harry , “ but it wasn’t really him , was it ?
 Just something to scare Snape . ”
 Had it worked , Harry wondered , or had Snape already blasted the horror figure aside as casually as he had killed the real Dumbledore ?
 Nerves still tingling , he led the other two up the hall , half expecting some new terror to reveal itself , but nothing moved except for a mouse skittering along the skirting board .
 “ Before we go any farther , I think we’d better check , ” whispered Hermione , and she raised her wand and said , “ Homenum revelio . ”
 Nothing happened .
 “ Well , you’ve just had a big shock , ” said Ron kindly .
 “ What was that supposed to do ? ”
 “ It did what I meant it to do ! ”
 said Hermione rather crossly .
 “ That was a spell to reveal human presence , and there’s nobody here except us ! ”
 “ And old Dusty , ” said Ron , glancing at the patch of carpet from which the corpse figure had risen .
 “ Let’s go up , ” said Hermione with a frightened look at the same spot , and she led the way up the creaking stairs to the drawing room on the first floor .
 Hermione waved her wand to ignite the old gas lamps , then , shivering slightly in the drafty room , she perched on the sofa , her arms wrapped tightly around her .
 Ron crossed to the window and moved the heavy velvet curtain aside an inch .
 “ Can’t see anyone out there , ” he reported .
 “ And you’d think , if Harry still had a Trace on him , they’d have followed us here .
 I know they can’t get in the house , but what’s up , Harry ? ”
 Harry had given a cry of pain : His scar had burned again as something flashed across his mind like a bright light on water .
 He saw a large shadow and felt a fury that was not his own pound through his body , violent and brief as an electric shock .
 “ What did you see ? ”
 Ron asked , advancing on Harry .
 “ Did you see him at my place ? ”
 “ No , I just felt anger he’s really angry ” “ But that could be at the Burrow , ” said Ron loudly .
 “ What else ?
 Didn’t you see anything ?
 Was he cursing someone ? ”
 “ No , I just felt anger I couldn’t tell ” Harry felt badgered , confused , and Hermione did not help as she said in a frightened voice , “ Your scar , again ?
 But what’s going on ?
 I thought that connection had closed ! ”
 “ It did , for a while , ” muttered Harry his scar was still painful , which made it hard to concentrate .
 “ I I think it’s started opening again whenever he loses control , that’s how it used to ” “ But then you’ve got to close your mind ! ”
 said Hermione shrilly .
 “ Harry , Dumbledore didn’t want you to use that connection , he wanted you to shut it down , that’s why you were supposed to use Occlumency !
 Otherwise Voldemort can plant false images in your mind , remember ” “ Yeah , I do remember , thanks , ” said Harry through gritted teeth he did not need Hermione to tell him that Voldemort had once used this selfsame connection between them to lead him into a trap , nor that it had resulted in Sirius’s death .
 He wished that he had not told them what he had seen and felt it made Voldemort more threatening , as though he were pressing against the window of the room , and still the pain in his scar was building and he fought it : It was like resisting the urge to be sick .
 He turned his back on Ron and Hermione , pretending to examine the old tapestry of the Black family tree on the wall .
 Then Hermione shrieked : Harry drew his wand again and spun around to see a silver Patronus soar through the drawing room window and land upon the floor in front of them , where it solidified into the weasel that spoke with the voice of Ron’s father .
 “ Family safe , do not reply , we are being watched . ”
 The Patronus dissolved into nothingness .
 Ron let out a noise between a whimper and a groan and dropped onto the sofa : Hermione joined him , gripping his arm .
 “ They’re all right , they’re all right ! ”
 she whispered , and Ron half laughed and hugged her .
 “ Harry , ” he said over Hermione’s shoulder , “ I ” “ It’s not a problem , ” said Harry , sickened by the pain in his head .
 “ It’s your family , ’ course you’re worried .
 I’d feel the same way . ”
 He thought of Ginny .
 “ I do feel the same way . ”
 The pain in his scar was reaching a peak , burning as it had done in the garden of the Burrow .
 Faintly he heard Hermione say , “ I don’t want to be on my own .
 Could we use the sleeping bags I’ve brought and camp in here tonight ? ”
 He heard Ron agree .
 He could not fight the pain much longer : He had to succumb .
 “ Bathroom , ” he muttered , and he left the room as fast as he could without running .
 He barely made it : Bolting the door behind him with trembling hands , he grasped his pounding head and fell to the floor , then in an explosion of agony , he felt the rage that did not belong to him possess his soul , saw a long room lit only by firelight , and the great blond Death Eater on the floor , screaming and writhing , and a slighter figure standing over him , wand outstretched , while Harry spoke in a high , cold , merciless voice .
 “ More , Rowle , or shall we end it and feed you to Nagini ?
 Lord Voldemort is not sure that he will forgive this time .
 You called me back for this , to tell me that Harry Potter has escaped again ?
 Draco , give Rowle another taste of our displeasure .
 Do it , or feel my wrath yourself ! ”
 A log fell in the fire : Flames reared , their light darting across a terrified , pointed white face with a sense of emerging from deep water , Harry drew heaving breaths and opened his eyes .
 He was spread eagled on the cold black marble floor , his nose inches from one of the silver serpent tails that supported the large bathtub .
 He sat up .
 Malfoy’s gaunt , petrified face seemed branded on the inside of his eyes .
 Harry felt sickened by what he had seen , by the use to which Draco was now being put by Voldemort .
 There was a sharp rap on the door , and Harry jumped as Hermione’s voice rang out .
 “ Harry , do you want your toothbrush ?
 I’ve got it here . ”
 “ Yeah , great , thanks , ” he said , fighting to keep his voice casual as he stood up to let her in .
 KREACHER’S TALE Harry woke early next morning , wrapped in a sleeping bag on the drawing room floor .
 A chink of sky was visible between the heavy curtains : It was the cool , clear blue of watered ink , somewhere between night and dawn , and everything was quiet except for Ron and Hermione’s slow , deep breathing .
 Harry glanced over at the dark shapes they made on the floor beside him .
 Ron had had a fit of gallantry and insisted that Hermione sleep on the cushions from the sofa , so that her silhouette was raised above his .
 Her arm curved to the floor , her fingers inches from Ron’s .
 Harry wondered whether they had fallen asleep holding hands .
 The idea made him feel strangely lonely .
 He looked up at the shadowy ceiling , the cobwebbed chandelier .
 Less than twenty four hours ago , he had been standing in the sunlight at the entrance to the marquee , waiting to show in wedding guests .
 It seemed a lifetime away .
 What was going to happen now ?
 He lay on the floor and he thought of the Horcruxes , of the daunting , complex mission Dumbledore had left him .
 Dumbledore The grief that had possessed him since Dumbledore’s death felt different now .
 The accusations he had heard from Muriel at the wedding seemed to have nested in his brain like diseased things , infecting his memories of the wizard he had idolized .
 Could Dumbledore have let such things happen ?
 Had he been like Dudley , content to watch neglect and abuse as long as it did not affect him ?
 Could he have turned his back on a sister who was being imprisoned and hidden ?
 Harry thought of Godric’s Hollow , of graves Dumbledore had never mentioned there he thought of mysterious objects left without explanation in Dumbledore’s will , and resentment swelled in the darkness .
 Why hadn’t Dumbledore told him ?
 Why hadn’t he explained ?
 Had Dumbledore actually cared about Harry at all ?
 Or had Harry been nothing more than a tool to be polished and honed , but not trusted , never confided in ?
 Harry could not stand lying there with nothing but bitter thoughts for company .
 Desperate for something to do , for distraction , he slipped out of his sleeping bag , picked up his wand , and crept out of the room .
 On the landing he whispered , “ Lumos , ” and started to climb the stairs by wandlight .
 On the second landing was the bedroom in which he and Ron had slept last time they had been here he glanced into it .
 The wardrobe doors stood open and the bedclothes had been ripped back .
 Harry remembered the overturned troll leg downstairs .
 Somebody had searched the house since the Order had left .
 Snape ?
 Or perhaps Mundungus , who had pilfered plenty from this house both before and after Sirius died ?
 Harry’s gaze wandered to the portrait that sometimes contained Phineas Nigellus Black , Sirius’s great great grandfather , but it was empty , showing nothing but a stretch of muddy backdrop .
 Phineas Nigellus was evidently spending the night in the headmaster’s study at Hogwarts .
 Harry continued up the stairs until he reached the topmost landing , where there were only two doors .
 The one facing him bore a nameplate reading SIRIUS .
 Harry had never entered his godfather’s bedroom before .
 He pushed open the door , holding his wand high to cast light as widely as possible .
 The room was spacious and must once have been handsome .
 There was a large bed with a carved wooden headboard , a tall window obscured by long velvet curtains , and a chandelier thickly coated in dust with candle stubs still resting in its sockets , solid wax hanging in frostlike drips .
 A fine film of dust covered the pictures on the walls and the bed’s headboard a spider’s web stretched between the chandelier and the top of the large wooden wardrobe , and as Harry moved deeper into the room , he heard a scurrying of disturbed mice .
 The teenage Sirius had plastered the walls with so many posters and pictures that little of the walls ’ silvery gray silk was visible .
 Harry could only assume that Sirius’s parents had been unable to remove the Permanent Sticking Charm that kept them on the wall , because he was sure they would not have appreciated their eldest son’s taste in decoration .
 Sirius seemed to have gone out of his way to annoy his parents .
 There were several large Gryffindor banners , faded scarlet and gold , just to underline his difference from all the rest of the Slytherin family .
 There were many pictures of Muggle motorcycles , and also ( Harry had to admire Sirius’s nerve ) several posters of bikini clad Muggle girls Harry could tell that they were Muggles because they remained quite stationary within their pictures , faded smiles and glazed eyes frozen on the paper .
 This was in contrast to the only Wizarding photograph on the walls , which was a picture of four Hogwarts students standing arm in arm , laughing at the camera .
 With a leap of pleasure , Harry recognized his father his untidy black hair stuck up at the back like Harry’s , and he too wore glasses .
 Beside him was Sirius , carelessly handsome , his slightly arrogant face so much younger and happier than Harry had ever seen it alive .
 To Sirius’s right stood Pettigrew , more than a head shorter , plump and watery eyed , flushed with pleasure at his inclusion in this coolest of gangs , with the much admired rebels that James and Sirius had been .
 On James’s left was Lupin , even then a little shabby looking , but he had the same air of delighted surprise at finding himself liked and included or was it simply because Harry knew how it had been , that he saw these things in the picture ?
 He tried to take it from the wall it was his now , after all , Sirius had left him everything , but it would not budge .
 Sirius had taken no chances in preventing his parents from redecorating his room .
 Harry looked around at the floor .
 The sky outside was growing brighter : A shaft of light revealed bits of paper , books , and small objects scattered over the carpet .
 Evidently Sirius’s bedroom had been searched too , although its contents seemed to have been judged mostly , if not entirely , worthless .
 A few of the books had been shaken roughly enough to part company with their covers , and sundry pages littered the floor .
 Harry bent down , picked up a few of the pieces of paper , and examined them .
 He recognized one as part of an old edition of A History of Magic , by Bathilda Bagshot , and another as belonging to a motorcycle maintenance manual .
 The third was handwritten and crumpled .
 He smoothed it out .
 Dear Padfoot , Thank you , thank you , for Harry’s birthday present !
 It was his favorite by far .
 One year old and already zooming along on a toy broomstick , he looked so pleased with himself , I’m enclosing a picture so you can see .
 You know it only rises about two feet off the ground , but he nearly killed the cat and he smashed a horrible vase Petunia sent me for Christmas ( no complaints there ) .
 Of course , James thought it was so funny , says he’s going to be a great Quidditch player , but we’ve had to pack away all the ornaments and make sure we don’t take our eyes off him when he gets going .
 We had a very quiet birthday tea , just us and old Bathilda , who has always been sweet to us and who dotes on Harry .
 We were so sorry you couldn’t come , but the Order’s got to come first , and Harry’s not old enough to know it’s his birthday anyway !
 James is getting a bit frustrated shut up here , he tries not to show it but I can tell also , Dumbledore’s still got his Invisibility Cloak , so no chance of little excursions .
 If you could visit , it would cheer him up so much .
 Wormy was here last weekend , I thought he seemed down , but that was probably the news about the McKinnons I cried all evening when I heard .
 Bathilda drops in most days , she’s a fascinating old thing with the most amazing stories about Dumbledore , I’m not sure he’d be pleased if he knew !
 I don’t know how much to believe , actually , because it seems incredible that Dumbledore Harry’s extremities seemed to have gone numb .
 He stood quite still , holding the miraculous paper in his nerveless fingers while inside him a kind of quiet eruption sent joy and grief thundering in equal measure through his veins .
 Lurching to the bed , he sat down .
 He read the letter again , but could not take in any more meaning than he had done the first time , and was reduced to staring at the handwriting itself .
 She had made her “ g ” s the same way he did : He searched through the letter for every one of them , and each felt like a friendly little wave glimpsed from behind a veil .
 The letter was an incredible treasure , proof that Lily Potter had lived , really lived , that her warm hand had once moved across this parchment , tracing ink into these letters , these words , words about him , Harry , her son .
 Impatiently brushing away the wetness in his eyes , he reread the letter , this time concentrating on the meaning .
 It was like listening to a half remembered voice .
 They had had a cat perhaps it had perished , like his parents , at Godric’s Hollow or else fled when there was nobody left to feed it .
 Sirius had bought him his first broomstick .
 His parents had known Bathilda Bagshot had Dumbledore introduced them ?
 DumblecLore’s still got his Invisibility Cloak There was something funny there .
 Harry paused , pondering his mother’s words .
 Why had Dumbledore taken James’s Invisibility Cloak ?
 Harry distinctly remembered his headmaster telling him years before , “ I don’t need a cloak to become invisible . ”
 Perhaps some less gifted Order member had needed its assistance , and Dumbledore had acted as carrier ?
 Harry passed on .
 Wormy was here Pettigrew , the traitor , had seemed “ down , ” had he ?
 Was he aware that he was seeing James and Lily alive for the last time ?
 And finally Bathilda again , who told incredible stories about Dumbledore .
 It seems incredible that Dumbledore That Dumbledore what ?
 But there were any number of things that would seem incredible about Dumbledore that he had once received bottom marks in a Transfiguration test , for instance , or had taken up goat charming like Aberforth .
 Harry got to his feet and scanned the floor : Perhaps the rest of the letter was here somewhere .
 He seized papers , treating them , in his eagerness , with as little consideration as the original searcher he pulled open drawers , shook out books , stood on a chair to run his hand over the top of the wardrobe , and crawled under the bed and armchair .
 At last , lying facedown on the floor , he spotted what looked like a torn piece of paper under the chest of drawers .
 When he pulled it out , it proved to be most of the photograph Lily had described in her letter .
 A black haired baby was zooming in and out of the picture on a tiny broom , roaring with laughter , and a pair of legs that must have belonged to James was chasing after him .
 Harry tucked the photograph into his pocket with Lily’s letter and continued to look for the second sheet .
 After another quarter of an hour , however , he was forced to conclude that the rest of his mother’s letter was gone .
 Had it simply been lost in the sixteen years that had elapsed since it had been written , or had it been taken by whoever had searched the room ?
 Harry read the first sheet again , this time looking for clues as to what might have made the second sheet valuable .
 His toy broomstick could hardly be considered interesting to the Death Eaters .
 The only potentially useful thing he could see here was possible information on Dumbledore .
 It seems incredible that Dumbledore what ?
 “ Harry ?
 Harry !
 HarryV ’ “ I’m here ! ”
 he called .
 “ What’s happened ? ”
 There was a clatter of footsteps outside the door , and Hermione burst inside .
 “ We woke up and didn’t know where you were ! ”
 she said breathlessly .
 She turned and shouted over her shoulder , “ Ron !
 I’ve found him ! ”
 Ron’s annoyed voice echoed distantly from several floors below .
 “ Good !
 Tell him from me he’s a git ! ”
 “ Harry , don’t just disappear , please , we were terrified !
 Why did you come up here anyway ? ”
 She gazed around the ransacked room .
 “ What have you been doing ? ”
 “ Look what I’ve just found . ”
 He held out his mother’s letter .
 Hermione took it and read it while Harry watched her .
 When she reached the end of the page she looked up at him .
 “ Oh , Harry ” “ And there’s this too . ”
 He handed her the torn photograph , and Hermione smiled at the baby zooming in and out of sight on the toy broom .
 “ I’ve been looking for the rest of the letter , ” Harry said , “ but it’s not here . ”
 Hermione glanced around .
 “ Did you make all this mess , or was some of it done when you got here ? ”
 “ Someone had searched before me , ” said Harry .
 “ I thought so .
 Every room I looked into on the way up had been disturbed .
 What were they after , do you think ? ”
 “ Information on the Order , if it was Snape . ”
 “ But you’d think he’d already have all he needed , I mean , he was in the Order , wasn’t he ? ”
 “ Well then , ” said Harry , keen to discuss his theory , “ what about information on Dumbledore ?
 The second page of this letter , for instance .
 You know this Bathilda my mum mentions , you know who she is ? ”
 “ Who ? ”
 “ Bathilda Bagshot , the author of ” “ A History of Magic , ” said Hermione , looking interested .
 “ So your parents knew her ?
 She was an incredible magical historian . ”
 “ And she’s still alive , ” said Harry , “ and she lives in Godric’s Hollow , Ron’s Auntie Muriel was talking about her at the wedding .
 She knew Dumbledore ’ s family too .
 Be pretty interesting to talk to , wouldn’t she ? ”
 There was a little too much understanding in the smile Hermione gave him for Harry’s liking .
 He took back the letter and the photograph and tucked them inside the pouch around his neck , so as not to have to look at her and give himself away .
 “ I understand why you’d love to talk to her about your mum and dad , and Dumbledore too , ” said Hermione .
 “ But that wouldn’t really help us in our search for the Horcruxes , would it ? ”
 Harry did not answer , and she rushed on , “ Harry , I know you really want to go to Godric’s Hollow , but I’m scared , I’m scared at how easily those Death Eaters found us yesterday .
 It just makes me feel more than ever that we ought to avoid the place where your parents are buried , I’m sure they’d be expecting you to visit it . ”
 “ It’s not just that , ” Harry said , still avoiding looking at her .
 “ Muriel said stuff about Dumbledore at the wedding .
 I want to know the truth . ”
 He told Hermione everything that Muriel had told him .
 When he had finished , Hermione said , “ Of course , I can see why that’s upset you , Harry ” “ I’m not upset , ” he lied , “ I’d just like to know whether or not it’s true or ” “ Harry , do you really think you’ll get the truth from a malicious old woman like Muriel , or from Rita Skeeter ?
 How can you believe them ?
 You knew Dumbledore ! ”
 “ I thought I did , ” he muttered .
 “ But you know how much truth there was in everything Rita wrote about you !
 Doge is right , how can you let these people tarnish your memories of Dumbledore ? ”
 He looked away , trying not to betray the resentment he felt .
 There it was again : Choose what to believe .
 He wanted the truth .
 Why was everybody so determined that he should not get it ?
 “ Shall we go down to the kitchen ? ”
 Hermione suggested after a little pause .
 “ Find something for breakfast ? ”
 He agreed , but grudgingly , and followed her out onto the landing and past the second door that led off it .
 There were deep scratch marks in the paintwork below a small sign that he had not noticed in the dark .
 He paused at the top of the stairs to read it .
 It was a pompous little sign , neatly lettered by hand , the sort of thing that Percy Weasley might have stuck on his bedroom door : Do Not Enter Without the Express Permission of Regulus Arcturus Black Excitement trickled through Harry , but he was not immediately sure why .
 He read the sign again .
 Hermione was already a flight of stairs below him .
 “ Hermione , ” he said , and he was surprised that his voice was so calm .
 “ Come back up here . ”
 “ What’s the matter ? ”
 “ R . A . B .
 I think I’ve found him . ”
 There was a gasp , and then Hermione ran back up the stairs .
 “ In your mum’s letter ?
 But I didn’t see ” Harry shook his head , pointing at Regulus’s sign .
 She read it , then clutched Harry’s arm so tightly that he winced .
 “ Sirius’s brother ? ”
 she whispered .
 “ He was a Death Eater , ” said Harry , “ Sirius told me about him , he joined up when he was really young and then got cold feet and tried to leave so they killed him . ”
 “ That fits ! ”
 gasped Hermione .
 “ If he was a Death Eater he had access to Voldemort , and if he became disenchanted , then he would have wanted to bring Voldemort down ! ”
 She released Harry , leaned over the banister , and screamed , “ Ron !
 RON !
 Get up here , quick ! ”
 Ron appeared , panting , a minute later , his wand ready in his hand .
 “ What’s up ?
 If it’s massive spiders again I want breakfast before I ” He frowned at the sign on Regulus’s door , to which Hermione was silently pointing .
 “ What ?
 That was Sirius’s brother , wasn’t it ?
 Regulus Arcturus Regulus R . A . B . l The locket you don’t reckon ? ”
 “ Let’s find out , ” said Harry .
 He pushed the door : It was locked .
 Hermione pointed her wand at the handle and said , “ Alohomora . ”
 There was a click , and the door swung open .
 They moved over the threshold together , gazing around .
 Regulus’s bedroom was slightly smaller than Sirius’s , though it had the same sense of former grandeur .
 Whereas Sirius had sought to advertise his difference from the rest of the family , Regulus had striven to emphasize the opposite .
 The Slytherin colors of emerald and silver were everywhere , draping the bed , the walls , and the windows .
 The Black family crest was painstakingly painted over the bed , along with its motto , TOU JOURS PUR .
 Beneath this was a collection of yellow newspaper cuttings , all stuck together to make a ragged collage .
 Hermione crossed the room to examine them .
 “ They’re all about Voldemort , ” she said .
 “ Regulus seems to have been a fan for a few years before he joined the Death Eaters . ”
 A little puff of dust rose from the bedcovers as she sat down to read the clippings .
 Harry , meanwhile , had noticed another photograph a Hogwarts Quidditch team was smiling and waving out of the frame .
 He moved closer and saw the snakes emblazoned on their chests : Slytherins .
 Regulus was instantly recognizable as the boy sitting in the middle of the front row : He had the same dark hair and slightly haughty look of his brother , though he was smaller , slighter , and rather less handsome than Sirius had been .
 “ He played Seeker , ” said Harry .
 “ What ? ”
 said Hermione vaguely she was still immersed in Voldemort’s press clippings .
 “ He’s sitting in the middle of the front row , that’s where the Seeker Never mind , ” said Harry , realizing that nobody was listening : Ron was on his hands and knees , searching under the wardrobe .
 Harry looked around the room for likely hiding places and approached the desk .
 Yet again , somebody had searched before them .
 The drawers ’ contents had been turned over recently , the dust disturbed , but there was nothing of value there : old quills , out of date textbooks that bore evidence of being roughly handled , a recently smashed ink bottle , its sticky residue covering the contents of the drawer .
 “ There’s an easier way , ” said Hermione , as Harry wiped his inky fingers on his jeans .
 She raised her wand and said , “ Accio Locked . ”
 Nothing happened .
 Ron , who had been searching the folds of the faded curtains , looked disappointed .
 “ Is that it , then ?
 It’s not here ? ”
 “ Oh , it could still be here , but under counter enchantments , ” said Hermione .
 “ Charms to prevent it being summoned magically , you know . ”
 “ Like Voldemort put on the stone basin in the cave , ” said Harry , remembering how he had been unable to Summon the fake locket .
 “ How are we supposed to find it then ? ”
 asked Ron .
 “ We search manually , ” said Hermione .
 “ That’s a good idea , ” said Ron , rolling his eyes , and he resumed his examination of the curtains .
 They combed every inch of the room for more than an hour , but were forced , finally , to conclude that the locket was not there .
 The sun had risen now its light dazzled them even through the grimy landing windows .
 “ It could be somewhere else in the house , though , ” said Hermione in a rallying tone as they walked back downstairs : As Harry and Ron had become more discouraged , she seemed to have become more determined .
 “ Whether he’d managed to destroy it or not , he’d want to keep it hidden from Voldemort , wouldn’t he ?
 Remember all those awful things we had to get rid of when we were here last time ?
 That clock that shot bolts at everyone and those old robes that tried to strangle Ron Regulus might have put them there to protect the locket’s hiding place , even though we didn’t realize it at at ” Harry and Ron looked at her .
 She was standing with one foot in midair , with the dumbstruck look of one who had just been Obliviated her eyes had even drifted out of focus . “
 at the time , ” she finished in a whisper .
 “ Something wrong ? ”
 asked Ron .
 “ There was a locket . ”
 “ What ? ”
 said Harry and Ron together .
 “ In the cabinet in the drawing room .
 Nobody could open it .
 And we we ” Harry felt as though a brick had slid down through his chest into his stomach .
 He remembered : He had even handled the thing as they passed it around , each trying in turn to prise it open .
 It had been tossed into a sack of rubbish , along with the snuffbox of Wartcap powder and the music box that had made everyone sleepy .
 “ Kreacher nicked loads of things back from us , ” said Harry .
 It was the only chance , the only slender hope left to them , and he was going to cling to it until forced to let go .
 “ He had a whole stash of stuff in his cupboard in the kitchen .
 C’mon . ”
 He ran down the stairs taking two steps at a time , the other two thundering along in his wake .
 They made so much noise that they woke the portrait of Sirius’s mother as they passed through the hall .
 “ Filth ) .
 Mudbloods Scum ) ” she screamed after them as they dashed down into the basement kitchen and slammed the door behind them .
 Harry ran the length of the room , skidded to a halt at the door of Kreacher’s cupboard , and wrenched it open .
 There was the nest of dirty old blankets in which the house elf had once slept , but they were no longer glittering with the trinkets Kreacher had salvaged .
 The only thing there was an old copy of Nature’s Nobility : A Wizarding Genealogy .
 Refusing to believe his eyes , Harry snatched up the blankets and shook them .
 A dead mouse fell out and rolled dismally across the floor .
 Ron groaned as he threw himself into a kitchen chair Hermione closed her eyes .
 “ It’s not over yet , ” said Harry , and he raised his voice and called , “ Kreacherl ” There was a loud crack and the house elf that Harry had so reluctantly inherited from Sirius appeared out of nowhere in front of the cold and empty fireplace : tiny , half human sized , his pale skin hanging off him in folds , white hair sprouting copiously from his batlike ears .
 He was still wearing the filthy rag in which they had first met him , and the contemptuous look he bent upon Harry showed that his attitude to his change of ownership had altered no more than his outfit .
 “ Master , ” croaked Kreacher in his bullfrog’s voice , and he bowed low , muttering to his knees , “ back in my Mistress’s old house with the blood traitor Weasley and the Mudblood ” “ I forbid you to call anyone ‘ blood traitor ’ or ‘ Mudblood , ’ ” growled Harry .
 He would have found Kreacher , with his snoutlike nose and bloodshot eyes , a distinctly unlovable object even if the elf had not betrayed Sirius to Voldemort .
 “ I’ve got a question for you , ” said Harry , his heart beating rather fast as he looked down at the elf , “ and I order you to answer it truthfully .
 Understand ? ”
 “ Yes , Master , ” said Kreacher , bowing low again : Harry saw his lips moving soundlessly , undoubtedly framing the insults he was now forbidden to utter .
 “ Two years ago , ” said Harry , his heart now hammering against his ribs , “ there was a big gold locket in the drawing room upstairs .
 We threw it out .
 Did you steal it back ? ”
 There was a moment’s silence , during which Kreacher straightened up to look Harry full in the face .
 Then he said , “ Yes . ”
 “ Where is it now ? ”
 asked Harry jubilantly as Ron and Hermione looked gleeful .
 Kreacher closed his eyes as though he could not bear to see their reactions to his next word .
 “ Gone . ”
 “ Gone ? ”
 echoed Harry , elation flooding out of him .
 “ What do you mean , it’s gone ? ”
 The elf shivered .
 He swayed .
 “ Kreacher , ” said Harry fiercely , “ I order you ” “ Mundungus Fletcher , ” croaked the elf , his eyes still tight shut .
 “ Mundungus Fletcher stole it all : Miss Bella’s and Miss Cissy’s pictures , my Mistress’s gloves , the Order of Merlin , First Class , the goblets with the family crest , and and ” Kreacher was gulping for air : His hollow chest was rising and falling rapidly , then his eyes flew open and he uttered a bloodcurdling scream .
 “ and the locket , Master Regulus’s locket , Kreacher did wrong , Kreacher failed in his orders ! ”
 Harry reacted instinctively : As Kreacher lunged for the poker standing in the grate , he launched himself upon the elf , flattening him .
 Hermione’s scream mingled with Kreacher’s , but Harry bellowed louder than both of them : “ Kreacher , I order you to stay still ! ”
 He felt the elf freeze and released him .
 Kreacher lay flat on the cold stone floor , tears gushing from his sagging eyes .
 “ Harry , let him up ! ”
 Hermione whispered .
 “ So he can beat himself up with the poker ? ”
 snorted Harry , kneeling beside the elf .
 “ I don’t think so .
 Right , Kreacher , I want the truth : How do you know Mundungus Fletcher stole the locket ? ”
 “ Kreacher saw him ! ”
 gasped the elf as tears poured over his snout and into his mouth full of graying teeth .
 “ Kreacher saw him coming out of Kreacher’s cupboard with his hands full of Kreacher’s treasures .
 Kreacher told the sneak thief to stop , but Mundungus Fletcher laughed and r ran . ”
 “ You called the locket ‘ Master Regulus ’ s , ’ ” said Harry .
 “ Why ?
 Where did it come from ?
 What did Regulus have to do with it ?
 Kreacher , sit up and tell me everything you know about that locket , and everything Regulus had to do with it ! ”
 The elf sat up , curled into a ball , placed his wet face between his knees , and began to rock backward and forward .
 When he spoke , his voice was muffled but quite distinct in the silent , echoing kitchen .
 “ Master Sirius ran away , good riddance , for he was a bad boy and broke my Mistress’s heart with his lawless ways .
 But Master Regulus had proper pride he knew what was due to the name of Black and the dignity of his pure blood .
 For years he talked of the Dark Lord , who was going to bring the wizards out of hiding to rule the Muggles and the Muggle borns and when he was sixteen years old , Master Regulus joined the Dark Lord .
 So proud , so proud , so happy to serve “ And one day , a year after he had joined , Master Regulus came down to the kitchen to see Kreacher .
 Master Regulus always liked Kreacher .
 And Master Regulus said he said ” The old elf rocked faster than ever . “
 he said that the Dark Lord required an elf . ”
 “ Voldemort needed an elf ? ”
 Harry repeated , looking around at Ron and Hermione , who looked just as puzzled as he did .
 “ Oh yes , ” moaned Kreacher .
 “ And Master Regulus had volunteered Kreacher .
 It was an honor , said Master Regulus , an honor for him and for Kreacher , who must be sure to do whatever the Dark Lord ordered him to do and then to c come home . ”
 Kreacher rocked still faster , his breath coming in sobs .
 “ So Kreacher went to the Dark Lord .
 The Dark Lord did not tell Kreacher what they were to do , but took Kreacher with him to a cave beside the sea .
 And beyond the cave there was a cavern , and in the cavern was a great black lake ” The hairs on the back of Harry’s neck stood up .
 Kreacher’s croaking voice seemed to come to him from across that dark water .
 He saw what had happened as clearly as though he had been present . “
 There was a boat ” Of course there had been a boat Harry knew the boat , ghostly green and tiny , bewitched so as to carry one wizard and one victim toward the island in the center .
 This , then , was how Voldemort had tested the defenses surrounding the Horcrux : by borrowing a disposable creature , a house elf “ There was a b basin full of potion on the island .
 The D Dark Lord made Kreacher drink it . ”
 The elf quaked from head to foot .
 “ Kreacher drank , and as he drank , he saw terrible things .
 Kreacher’s insides burned .
 Kreacher cried for Master Regulus to save him , he cried for his Mistress Black , but the Dark Lord only laughed .
 He made Kreacher drink all the potion .
 He dropped a locket into the empty basin .
 He filled it with more potion .
 “ And then the Dark Lord sailed away , leaving Kreacher on the island . ”
 Harry could see it happening .
 He watched Voldemort’s white , snakelike face vanishing into darkness , those red eyes fixed pitilessly on the thrashing elf whose death would occur within minutes , whenever he succumbed to the desperate thirst that the burning potion caused its victim .
 But here , Harry’s imagination could go no further , for he could not see how Kreacher had escaped .
 “ Kreacher needed water , he crawled to the island’s edge and he drank from the black lake and hands , dead hands , came out of the water and dragged Kreacher under the surface . ”
 “ How did you get away ? ”
 Harry asked , and he was not surprised to hear himself whispering .
 Kreacher raised his ugly head and looked at Harry with his great , bloodshot eyes .
 “ Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back , ” he said .
 “ I know but how did you escape the Inferi ? ”
 Kreacher did not seem to understand .
 “ Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back , ” he repeated .
 “ I know , but ” “ Well , it’s obvious , isn’t it , Harry ? ”
 said Ron .
 “ He Disapparated ! ”
 “ But you couldn’t Apparate in and out of that cave , ” said Harry , “ otherwise Dumbledore ” “ Elf magic isn’t like wizard’s magic , is it ? ”
 said Ron .
 “ I mean , they can Apparate and Disapparate in and out of Hogwarts when we can’t . ”
 There was silence as Harry digested this .
 How could Voldemort have made such a mistake ?
 But even as he thought this , Hermione spoke , and her voice was icy .
 “ Of course , Voldemort would have considered the ways of house elves far beneath his notice , just like all the purebloods who treat them like animals .
 It would never have occurred to him that they might have magic that he didn’t . ”
 “ The house elf’s highest law is his Master’s bidding , ” intoned Kreacher .
 “ Kreacher was told to come home , so Kreacher came home . ”
 “ Well , then , you did what you were told , didn’t you ? ”
 said Hermione kindly .
 “ You didn’t disobey orders at all ! ”
 Kreacher shook his head , rocking as fast as ever .
 “ So what happened when you got back ? ”
 Harry asked .
 “ What did Regulus say when you told him what had happened ? ”
 “ Master Regulus was very worried , very worried , ” croaked Kreacher .
 “ Master Regulus told Kreacher to stay hidden and not to leave the house .
 And then it was a little while later Master Regulus came to find Kreacher in his cupboard one night , and Master Regulus was strange , not as he usually was , disturbed in his mind , Kreacher could tell and he asked Kreacher to take him to the cave , the cave where Kreacher had gone with the Dark Lord . ”
 And so they had set off .
 Harry could visualize them quite clearly , the frightened old elf and the thin , dark Seeker who had so resembled Sirius .
 Kreacher knew how to open the concealed entrance to the underground cavern , knew how to raise the tiny boat this time it was his beloved Regulus who sailed with him to the island with its basin of poison .
 “ And he made you drink the potion ? ”
 said Harry , disgusted .
 But Kreacher shook his head and wept .
 Hermione’s hands leapt to her mouth : She seemed to have understood something .
 “ M Master Regulus took from his pocket a locket like the one the Dark Lord had , ” said Kreacher , tears pouring down either side of his snoutlike nose .
 “ And he told Kreacher to take it and , when the basin was empty , to switch the lockets . ”
 Kreacher’s sobs came in great rasps now Harry had to concentrate hard to understand him .
 “ And he ordered Kreacher to leave without him .
 And he told Kreacher to go home and never to tell my Mistress what he had done but to destroy the first locket .
 And he drank all the potion and Kreacher swapped the lockets and watched as Master Regulus was dragged beneath the water and ” “ Oh , Kreacher ! ”
 wailed Hermione , who was crying .
 She dropped to her knees beside the elf and tried to hug him .
 At once he was on his feet , cringing away from her , quite obviously repulsed .
 “ The Mudblood touched Kreacher , he will not allow it , what would his Mistress say ? ”
 “ I told you not to call her ‘ Mudblood ’ ! ”
 snarled Harry , but the elf was already punishing himself : He fell to the ground and banged his forehead on the floor .
 “ Stop him stop him ! ”
 Hermione cried .
 “ Oh , don’t you see now how sick it is , the way they’ve got to obey ? ”
 “ Kreacher stop , stop ! ”
 shouted Harry .
 The elf lay on the floor , panting and shivering , green mucus glistening around his snout , a bruise already blooming on his pallid forehead where he had struck himself , his eyes swollen and bloodshot and swimming in tears .
 Harry had never seen anything so pitiful .
 “ So you brought the locket home , ” he said relentlessly , for he was determined to know the full story .
 “ And you tried to destroy it ? ”
 “ Nothing Kreacher did made any mark upon it , ” moaned the elf .
 “ Kreacher tried everything , everything he knew , but nothing , nothing would work .
 So many powerful spells upon the casing , Kreacher was sure the way to destroy it was to get inside it , but it would not open .
 Kreacher punished himself , he tried again , he punished himself , he tried again .
 Kreacher failed to obey orders , Kreacher could not destroy the locket !
 And his Mistress was mad with grief , because Master Regulus had disappeared , and Kreacher could not tell her what had happened , no , because Master Regulus had f f forbidden him to tell any of the f f family what happened in the c cave . ”
 Kreacher began to sob so hard that there were no more coherent words .
 Tears flowed down Hermione’s cheeks as she watched Kreacher , but she did not dare touch him again .
 Even Ron , who was no fan of Kreacher’s , looked troubled .
 Harry sat back on his heels and shook his head , trying to clear it .
 “ I don’t understand you , Kreacher , ” he said finally .
 “ Voldemort tried to kill you , Regulus died to bring Voldemort down , but you were still happy to betray Sirius to Voldemort ?
 You were happy to go to Narcissa and Bellatrix , and pass information to Voldemort through them . ”
 “ Harry , Kreacher doesn’t think like that , ” said Hermione , wiping her eyes on the back of her hand .
 “ He’s a slave house elves are used to bad , even brutal treatment what Voldemort did to Kreacher wasn’t that far out of the common way .
 What do wizard wars mean to an elf like Kreacher ?
 He’s loyal to people who are kind to him , and Mrs Black must have been , and Regulus certainly was , so he served them willingly and parroted their beliefs .
 I know what you’re going to say , ” she went on as Harry began to protest , “ that Regulus changed his mind but he doesn’t seem to have explained that to Kreacher , does he ?
 And I think I know why .
 Kreacher and Regulus ’ s family were all safer if they kept to the old pure blood line .
 Regulus was trying to protect them all . ”
 “ Sirius ” “ Sirius was horrible to Kreacher , Harry , and it’s no good looking like that , you know it’s true .
 Kreacher had been alone for a long time when Sirius came to live here , and he was probably starving for a bit of affection .
 I’m sure ‘ Miss Cissy ’ and ‘ Miss Bella ’ were perfectly lovely to Kreacher when he turned up , so he did them a favor and told them everything they wanted to know .
 I’ve said all along that wizards would pay for how they treat house elves .
 Well , Voldemort did and so did Sirius . ”
 Harry had no retort .
 As he watched Kreacher sobbing on the floor , he remembered what Dumbledore had said to him , mere hours after Sirius’s death : I do not think Sirius ever saw Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as a human’s .
 “ Kreacher , ” said Harry after a while , “ when you feel up to it , er please sit up . ”
 It was several minutes before Kreacher hiccuped himself into silence .
 Then he pushed himself into a sitting position again , rubbing his knuckles into his eyes like a small child .
 “ Kreacher , I am going to ask you to do something , ” said Harry .
 He glanced at Hermione for assistance .
 He wanted to give the order kindly , but at the same time , he could not pretend that it was not an order .
 However , the change in his tone seemed to have gained her approval : She smiled encouragingly .
 “ Kreacher , I want you , please , to go and find Mundungus Fletcher .
 We need to find out where the locket where Master Regulus’s locket is .
 It’s really important .
 We want to finish the work Master Regulus started , we want to er ensure that he didn’t die in vain . ”
 Kreacher dropped his fists and looked up at Harry .
 “ Find Mundungus Fletcher ? ”
 he croaked .
 “ And bring him here , to Grimmauld Place , ” said Harry .
 “ Do you think you could do that for us ? ”
 As Kreacher nodded and got to his feet , Harry had a sudden inspiration .
 He pulled out Hagrid’s purse and took out the fake Horcrux , the substitute locket in which Regulus had placed the note to Voldemort .
 “ Kreacher , I’d , er , like you to have this , ” he said , pressing the locket into the elf’s hand .
 “ This belonged to Regulus and I’m sure he’d want you to have it as a token of gratitude for what you ” “ Overkill , mate , ” said Ron as the elf took one look at the locket , let out a howl of shock and misery , and threw himself back onto the ground .
 It took them nearly half an hour to calm down Kreacher , who was so overcome to be presented with a Black family heirloom for his very own that he was too weak at the knees to stand properly .
 When finally he was able to totter a few steps they all accompanied him to his cupboard , watched him tuck up the locket safely in his dirty blankets , and assured him that they would make its protection their first priority while he was away .
 He then made two low bows to Harry and Ron , and even gave a funny little spasm in Hermione’s direction that might have been an attempt at a respectful salute , before Disapparating with the usual loud crack .